<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Anna Terrana</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="anna-terrana" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span>Anna Terrana</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">“The Centre Became My Second Home”</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Anna Terrana was interviewed on March 1, 2017, as part of the Story City project.</p>
			<p>My name is Anna Terrana. Some of the things I’ve done: I’ve been the executive director of the Italian Cultural Centre Society, I was also the president for five years, and I was also a Member of Parliament.</p>
			<p>
				<em>Could you tell me a little about [coming to Canada]?</em>
			</p>
			<p>Well, I was very happy where I was. I’m from Torino, in Piemonte. I used to work with the Americans. I had a very good job, in fact. But I met the man of my dreams, I suppose, and we married. But he was a very unstable person, he wasn’t able to stay in the same place for a long time. And in fact he had just arrived … from Australia where he had lived for nine years. He was originally from Trieste in Italy. And we ended up getting married and he didn’t want to stay in Italy and here we are. Here I am.</p>
			<p>We arrived in October 1966. And I was very sad. I didn’t want to be here. I wanted to be where I was … But somehow everything turned in a way that I could not say no. I just had to come. Even at the last minute, I was at the airport, and behind me there was the pilot of the plane, and the woman at the counter said that she could not let me come to Canada because I did not have a visa. I didn’t know I needed a visa, nobody ever told me anything. And so she said, “I cannot let you go.” Then the pilot said, “No, just stop it,” he said, “I’ll take this lady with me to Canada and if they don’t want her, I’ll bring her back.” Well, they wanted me. Here I am.</p>
			<p>In ’75, [my husband] and I split, so I found myself alone with this child. Thank God I had a good job. I was the administrator of the BC Place Commissions. I had to look after this child, and I had nobody, no family support, no anything.</p>
			<p>I started with Big Brothers, and the United Way, and I went on from there. And then I saw that they wanted to build a centre, the Consul of Italy … They told me “Why don’t you build a centre for the community? And the government will help you.” We started from there.</p>
			<p>[I lived in] the same place in Burnaby for, how is it? Forty-six years. So I made up for the eight years that I had to move. Because my husband and I separated, so I stayed there. I stayed there because of David, my son. Because he needed to have some stability in life.</p>
			<p>It was very difficult for me to do all the things then. But he was very supportive. He always was there when I needed him. And David, when he was growing up, then we had to run home, make supper, and go again to the meeting, take him to the meeting﻿⁠—poor David. The Centre became my second home. I was thinking of just leaving a bed there because I was there from nine o’clock in the morning ‘till eleven o’clock at night. Weekends, the same thing. People knew that I was there so they came by. They were fun times.</p>
			<p>Did you put your son into language school?</p>
			<p>David, no. David doesn’t even speak Italian, and you know I used to teach Italian. In Italy, I taught some Italian. And here, I started the ESL courses. The City of Vancouver had this project and again someone gave my name. This was 1969﻿⁠–⁠﻿1970. Peter Davis was in charge of this project from the City of Vancouver and then it involved was also the Federal Government and the United Church. And the idea was to bring, to have a bunch of us … for instance they started with the Italian and Chinese communities. Maggie Ip, you probably heard of her before: she has always been a very active Chinese person and she has also been a counsellor at City Hall. So she was in charge of the Chinese community and I was in charge of the Italian community.</p>
			<p>The idea was to bring these people with their children. Because the women ended up staying at home and the men were out working. So they were working and learning English but the women had no chance to do that. So we got them out of the house with their children, and we taught them English. We started in September/October and we ended in June … it was six months altogether. These people in the end could speak English. Because they did have English in their ears and they needed some attention.</p>
			<p>We were holding the classes at Saint Francis of Assisi because it was then the Italian church. So downstairs they have a small hall, and we had people looking after the children, and we had grandmothers. But I was teaching in the evening, so no grandmothers because they ended up going in the afternoon, but to this day occasionally I run into to someone and it’s, “Oh Anna!” One in particular, because he lives in Burnaby where I live. But usually I don’t even recognize them because so many years have gone by.</p>
			<p>
				<em>To hear audio clips from Anna’s interview and other Story City participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.</em>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
