<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">

<head>
</head>

<body>
  <h2>
    Introduction
  </h2>
  <p>
    Every community is the sum of its stories. A tiny fraction of those stories
    eventually make their way into books, but most live only in the memories of
    community members.
  </p>
  <p>
    In 2013, Vancouver Public Library began a project to collect and preserve
    some of these stories and memories in an online collection that would be
    available to everyone. At the time, we didn’t anticipate how many different
    types of memories this project would attract or how profound the demand
    would be. Stories began to pour in. Some folks came to our offices with
    photographs or objects that they had been meaning to preserve for decades.
  </p>
  <p>
    In the following years, library staff equipped with digital recorders
    ventured out of the library to Indigenous arts festivals, slam poetry
    haunts, local French-language cafés, and a host of community spaces to map
    out the cultural life of Vancouver as told by its residents. Over four
    hundred people shared their unique memories of the unceded Coast Salish
    territory that has become the city of Vancouver.
  </p>
  <p>
    Their stories and memories are now available at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">This Vancouver</a>, an online
    collection of audio recordings, photographs, and videos clips. The e-book
    you hold in your hand contains a small sampling of excerpts from this
    online collection. We hope you enjoy reading these interviews and will
    continue your journey with us at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">This Vancouver</a>, where you can
    hear your neighbours share their stories in their own voices.
  </p>
  <h2>
    Inez Cook
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “Don’t Panic... We Have Bannock”
  </h2>
  <p>
    <em>Inez Cook was interviewed on July 25, 2017, at </em>
    The Drum is Calling Festival
    <em>
      in Larwill Park. This interview was conducted as part of the Story City
      project.</em>

  </p>
  <p>
    Hi, my name is Inez Cook and I am Nuxalk from the Nuxalk Nation from Bella
    Coola and I was adopted and I grew up in Vancouver. I am the co-founder of
    Salmon n’ Bannock Bistro. We’re located at 1128 West Broadway. And I was
    just at <em>The Drum is Calling Festival</em> doing a food demo. And I
    thought I’d come over and say a little friendly hello.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      Well hello, Inez. Can you tell us about your childhood in Vancouver?
    </em>
  </p>
  <p>
    Well my childhood in Vancouver, well we kind of lived all over. We started
    in Burnaby and then Delta, then we moved to Northwest Territory for a
    couple months and then came back. And we lived in East Van, then we lived
    downtown. Kinda moved all around the west, lower mainland. Yeah, I grew up
    here, this is my home. I lived all over the world but it’s always nice to
    come home. I feel like if I’m away, I miss the ocean.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>Can I ask you, what is it that keeps bringing you back, Inez?</em>
  </p>
  <p>
    Family and the ocean.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      There you go. So are you comfortable talking about your relationship to
      your culture?
    </em>
  </p>
  <p>
    Yeah, absolutely. I was adopted out, so I only started really learning
    about my culture through my restaurant, and I was fortunate enough to get
    reconnected with my biological family. I went up to Bella Coola and I met
    five hundred relatives in a three-day potlatch. I received my traditional
    name, which is Snitsmana, which means ‘the protector of the sacred dance’
    and ‘lively.’ I received my button blanket the beginning of my regalia. I’m
    truly honoured, and now I showcase my heritage with pride.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>Tell us how you do that.</em>
  </p>
  <p>
    Well at Salmon n’ Bannock restaurant on Broadway, all my staff is First
    Nations we take all indigenous ingredients and serve it with a modern
    palate, and I’m mentoring people, and I do as much as I can for the
    community and I’m super proud.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>How has it changed your life?</em>
  </p>
  <p>
    Oh my goodness. I came full circle. I finally felt good in my own skin.
    That’s how it changed my life. It was epic. I spent my entire life
    searching for culture, and I’ve always had it within. It’s really special.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>Were you raised by a non-indigenous family?</em>
  </p>
  <p>
    Correct. I was raised in a really good home. I am part of the class action
    lawsuit, Sixties Scoop, and originally I didn’t want to participate because
    I was given a good life, but I realized that a lot of people weren’t as
    fortunate. And at the end of the day, it wasn’t right, it wasn’t the
    government’s decision to make. And so, therefore I put my name on the class
    action lawsuit because there are strength in numbers and the stories need
    to be told. People need to hear about this. It’s really important.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      Could you explain what the Sixties Scoop is for people who aren’t
      aware?
    </em>
  </p>
  <p>
    Yeah, absolutely. Well, a little 101 First Nations history is that you know
    the government set up residential schools across the country, which a lot
    of people have heard about recently. And you know all the children weren’t
    allowed to speak their language or learn their culture, grow up with their
    family. As a matter of fact, my biological mother, she spoke her language
    fluently, and they poured boiling hot water on her. She got third degree
    burns and she was hospitalized for three months. When they realized that
    her family was coming to visit her daily in the hospital, the government
    went, “Oh no, this is too much family involvement.” So they uprooted her
    and moved her to another residential school in Alert Bay, away from her
    family. So what happened is that there’s all these people that are broken.
    They didn’t grow up knowing how to be a daughter, knowing how to be a
    mother, knowing how to be a sister, knowing how to be a friend. They didn’t
    grow up understanding any of that. And then they had children and the
    government went, “Oh no, we forgot about this part.” Now these ones are
    having children. So they took us away and adopted us to non-indigenous
    families. I grew up without my status. I only got my status reinstated as
    an adult. But I have a biological sister, and she was also adopted into
    another family, and we also met as adults. So that’s another reason why I
    put my name on the list, just because I didn’t grow up with my sister.
    She’s become a great friend. But it wasn’t their right to do that, it
    wasn’t right.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>So your restaurant. How did you start your restaurant?</em>
  </p>
  <p>
    I have a business partner and we both fly for Air Canada full-time still.
    We tag team most of the time. So I was in Kelowna during the wine festival.
    And I saw that there was a Native restaurant there called Kekuli Café, and
    I came back and I talked to one of my best friends, Remy, and I said, “You
    know, there is a native restaurant in Kelowna, we don’t have one in
    Vancouver anymore, the 2010 Olympics are coming here, and we need a Native
    restaurant in this city and it’s crazy.” And he said, “I’ll work day and
    night, I’ll make it happen, let’s do it.” So we kind of dove in head first.
    And now, seven and a half years later, here we are.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      And so food is a connection to your culture? And it was before you
      reconnected with your family?
    </em>
  </p>
  <p>
    It was weird because when I saw the sign “Don’t Panic… We Have Bannock” at
    the Kekuli Café in Kelowna, bannock triggered something. “Oh my goodness I
    haven’t had bannock since I was a child.” We made it at camp. And I knew
    that was native bread. And all of a sudden I wanted to learn more, I wanted
    to know more. Growing up, I didn’t want to know anything about it. I saw
    drunk people in the ditch up in Northwest Territories—“Who are they?
    They’re Natives, and I’m not Native.” And that was it, I didn’t want to
    have any part of it. So it’s really nice to come full circle and to promote
    and showcase my heritage and be so proud. I was just making a joke at our
    food demo saying, “First Nations: We’re in.”
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Inez’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <h2>
    Jeremy Walker
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “The Drive Really Looked After Us”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Jeremy Walker was interviewed on July 22, 2017, at The Drum Is Calling
    Festival at Larwill Park. This interview was conducted as part of the <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/story-city">Story City</a> project.
  </p>
  <p>
    I’m from Kitimat, but kind of raised in Kitimat and Vancouver, both places.
    I used to come down for the summers all the time. Moved down in ’99. I have
    a lot of family, I have a huge family here.
  </p>
  <p>
    So, what area would you go to?
  </p>
  <p>
    East Van … Commercial Drive, yeah. When all those native housings went up
    we were the first ones in there. Yeah, it was crazy. There was probably
    about 150 of us, we were all—100 of us maybe—we were all like twelve to
    fourteen years old. There was a lot of us, there was a lot of us. We used
    to travel, we’d walk around, there’d be like thirty or forty of us, all
    just little kids. We were bad. We were really bad. That’s when all the
    residential schools was coming out, so we’re the first generation that
    wasn’t in residential school.
  </p>
  <p>
    The Drive really looked after us. Joe’s Café used to give us donuts and
    coffee and hot chocolates all the time. I’m like, “Let’s go see Joe!”
    whenever we got hungry. He’s like, he’d shake his head, he’d be kind of
    like, “You guys can’t come keep doing this all the time.” He really liked
    us, eh? And the bus drivers all watched us grow up, too. The bus drivers
    used to let us, certain bus drivers, would never get mad. They’d let us on
    all the time and talk to us. They’re like, “You guys got to calm down,” and
    stuff. So, it was like, East Van really, they watched out for us. It’s
    pretty good. Yeah, living on the Drive was so much culture and stuff there,
    and so much people that want to see us do good.
  </p>
  <p>
    It used to be really hard for a Native growing up. Like there wasn’t as
    much opportunity, there wasn’t much anything. But nowadays, the racism,
    it’s very rare in East Van. Farther you go, you’ll notice it’s a little bit
    more. Go to Surrey, go to North Van, you know, go past Chilliwack, you
    know. It’s more stereotyped there. But East Van, there’s so many of us out
    here and a lot of us are doing really good. A lot of us don’t drink or do
    drugs anymore, too. People are like “What?” Because we get stereotyped, and
    they just can’t believe that we don’t drink or do drugs anymore. I’m like
    “Yeah, it’s been a while.” And there’s a lot of us. There’s a lot of us. Me
    and my cousins had a show, the Snotty Nose Rez Kids, they had a show, and
    then we went there and there was about ten of us not drinking. Everybody
    couldn’t believe it. “Why, you guys aren’t drinking?” The whole table’s
    like, “Yeah, none of us drink here.” And they were like, from all over the
    nation because it was the Kanata Fest, they paid for a lot to bring people
    here. They were paying for their fare and everything, paying for their
    hotels. This thing’s huge. So they’re all meeting us and we’re meeting all
    these famous people and they’re like, they can’t believe we’re not
    drinking. Like, “What’s up with you guys? That’s really cool.” They think
    we’re really cool. We try, we try to be cool. We try hard.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Jeremy’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <h2>
    Andrea Smith
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “We Have a Good Hooligan Population Around Here”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Andrea Smith was interviewed on May 10, 2017, at Sidesaddle Bike Shop, the
    business she co-owns on Commercial Drive. The interview was conducted as
    part of the Story City project.
  </p>
  <p>
    As soon as I was old enough, I moved … Well, actually, I went to university
    first, but the first time I moved out that wasn’t a residence, I moved out
    to Commercial Drive.
  </p>
  <p>
    So have you been here since then?
  </p>
  <p>
    On and off. Yeah, this is my home.
  </p>
  <p>
    Are there particular aspects to it that makes it feel so much like home?
  </p>
  <p>
    Well for me at the time, I was like twenty, and I had grown up in the
    suburbs and I was coming out. Commercial Drive and the West End were the
    two really identifiable queer neighbourhoods. So I wanted to find community
    and be out, and this was the place to do it back then.
  </p>
  <p>
    The Drive was really different then. This was before Craigslist and the
    Internet. I mean, I’d gotten my first email address like three or four
    years earlier. So physical spaces were really important in terms of meeting
    people and making connections and learning how to be gay. And there was
    this community centre which was above the location where Womyns’ Ware—the
    sex toy store—still is, called Vancouver Lesbian Connection. And they had a
    library and, I don’t know, all the things that you have in an old-school
    women’s centre. And they had a housing board, and I think that’s where a
    lot of people found roommates. That’s where I found my first gay roommate.
  </p>
  <p>
    Were there any other places where you remember spending a lot of time
    hanging out at?
  </p>
  <p>
    The Drive, generally. I’ve lived here on and off for twenty years. The
    neighbourhood is dense with memories, pretty much straight up from the
    water at Powell Street up to— My usual game trail tops out at Trout Lake.
  </p>
  <p>
    So you’ve been here on and off for about twenty years and have seen quite a
    bit of change, I imagine?
  </p>
  <p>
    Yeah, I’ve been through the seven stages of grief with this neighbourhood.
    I think I kind of probably moved here just at the tail end. I mean,
    neighbourhoods are always in transition, and I guess depending on which end
    of the gentrification process you’re on, it can feel like positive change
    or negative. But when I first moved here it felt like just a miraculous
    place of a tight-knit community. Basically dykes and Italians in this sort
    of uneasy truce. Although it seemed like they shared the space really well,
    because the communities have things in common, too. Like a really strong
    sense of neighbourliness and a great love of coffee.
  </p>
  <p>
    And since then it’s really felt like, although it’s taken different forms,
    it’s been a fairly steady decline in terms of local character. The Drive
    used to just be a total place for weirdos. And just little changes. It’s so
    funny. When I moved here, you used to be able to just walk out into the
    street anywhere on the Drive. You were supposed to look both ways before
    you crossed the street, but you could just walk out into the street,
    because the drivers were used to the neighbourhood being so
    pedestrian-oriented and full of so many empowered weird pedestrians, that
    they would just drive really carefully. And so the street, even though
    there were cars on it, it felt very mellow and pedestrian-friendly. And
    then they put those traffic lights in with pedestrian-controlled signals,
    probably on paper that makes it safer. But what it did is, it puts in a
    traffic light and the cars are like, “Green means go, it’s my right of way”
    and it really changed the character of the street.
  </p>
  <p>
    And so just as the street has become more developed, I guess, I have felt
    that those changes have resulted in a loss of a sense of place and
    connection. And then as the rents go up you lose independent businesses.
    One of my favourite businesses on the Drive was a fish store that was run
    by an Italian-Canadian lesbian called Antonia’s School of Fish. That was
    the place for a business like that back in the day.
  </p>
  <p>
    I’d asked you about other places that you hung out in the area as well.
  </p>
  <p>
    Well, one of my favourites is the Skylight Diner. That place is old-school
    Drive. It hasn’t changed, I think, in the twenty years that I’ve been
    living here. And the population of people who have been living here for
    that long, and who are increasingly displaced from the neighbourhood and
    can’t go to their usual places, that one is just keeping going strong.
  </p>
  <p>
    Can you describe it a little bit?
  </p>
  <p>
    It’s just a classic — It’s not a classic greasy spoon like kitschy, it’s
    like normcore. Noticeable because of its rundown-ness and blandness. It’s
    like the collected bland aesthetics of the past five decades. It’s got sort
    of torn up booths and then tables with wood-panelled Arborite, which I
    think would be the seventies. And then it’s got inspirational posters of
    dolphins and gardens framed on the walls. So that’s the eighties, I guess.
    It might top out at the eighties. And they serve Chinese and Canadian
    cuisine, including a delicious eggs benedict with what appears to be nacho
    cheese sauce on the top, which is delicious.
  </p>
  <p>
    But the kids from the high school still go there to get their french fries.
    And the working class people can still get breakfast out there. I get it,
    it’s hard to run a business in this neighbourhood that caters to working
    class people, because you have to charge enough prices to pay your staff to
    rent homes within commuting distance of your business. And you have to
    charge enough to pay the rent that this neighbourhood now demands. So it’s
    kind of a cycle.
  </p>
  <p>
    I’m sorry. This is a downer. Like I said, I’ve been through the seven
    stages of grief. Is the final one acceptance?
  </p>
  <p>
    Were there any queer spaces you can think of from that time period as well?
  </p>
  <p>
    Well, other than Antonia’s School of Fish, Vancouver Lesbian Connection,
    which I think might have gone down in ignominy. I mean, feminist and queer
    politics had shifted and that was kind of a holdover from previous time in
    some ways. My personal politics, I don’t like to speak ill of former waves
    of feminism because I’m very grateful for the courage and work that was
    done by those people. And then times change and movements keep moving
    forward. But the whole Drive was a queer space. All the breakfast places
    were staffed by lesbians. I remember there was one very popular local
    little breakfast spot that was eventually sold. And the first thing the new
    owner did was fire all the lesbian staff and hire new people. The physical
    space was still the same but it really changed the character of that place.
  </p>
  <p>
    There used to be a little movie theatre, the Van East movie theatre, I
    think, at like Eighth and Commercial. And I think they were a queer film
    fest venue every year. And they were definitely a hangout. I think they
    were owned by an Indo-Canadian family but it was a very queer space. But
    really everything on the Drive. Sophie’s Pet Palace was run by a dyke.
    There was just a lot of visible dyke business owners, which created a very
    dykey neighbourhood.
  </p>
  <p>
    So would you say that is part of the change as well? Do you feel like
    there’s been a dispersal of that community, or has it just changed and sort
    of … ?
  </p>
  <p>
    Well, I think that with the commercialization of public space and the
    financialization of retail strips, and I mean financialization of real
    estate generally, but where you see — One of my favourite memories of the
    Drive was that in the nineties a McDonald’s opened up and a Subway opened
    up, and they both went out of business because this neighbourhood would not
    support chains. And it’s not really like that anymore.
  </p>
  <p>
    I think that queer communities generally are changing because the Internet
    has made it much easier to find community and find your particular
    subsection of a community instead of needing to go and live in the gay
    village. Also, this neighbourhood’s expensive now, and lesbians are women
    and we make seventy cents on the dollar. And a lot of women are choosing to
    move out to the suburbs or outlying areas because that’s where they can
    afford to start a family.
  </p>
  <p>
    So I’d say the neighbourhood has been watered down. It’s still the same
    population that’s here. Like you walk up the street and see a lot of the
    same people that you know. But I don’t know, the vibe is just different.
  </p>
  <p>
    Do you have other memories of the Drive you’d like to talk about?
  </p>
  <p>
    It’s kind of hard, my whole life has been here. My memories of my life are
    largely of the Drive. I mean, when I think of quintessential Drive
    memories, a lot of time spent in parks with my dog, off leash. A lot of
    awesome interactions with neighbours. There’s a lawless quality to this
    neighbourhood that I think the people who live here really enjoy.
  </p>
  <p>
    I remember one time I was walking my dog, off leash, because she was never
    on leash, and the Dog Police pulled up, the City Enforcement people, they
    pulled up and were like, “You need to put that dog on a leash,” and I was
    like, “I don’t have one,” because I never needed one, and someone yelled
    from up the block, “Maggie’s Mom!”—because they didn’t know my name, just
    the dog’s name—“Do you need a leash?” And the enforcement guy was like, I
    don’t belong here, I’m outnumbered, he was like, “Just get a leash,” and he
    drove away.
  </p>
  <p>
    I feel like, I don’t know, the Drive, we kind of look out for each other
    and a lot of the normal rules that make life boring, it’s not applied here.
    Whether that’s like no jaywalking or put your dog on a leash.
  </p>
  <p>
    I have this memory, Halloween on the Drive is always really fun. I remember
    outside the old Café Roma that isn’t there anymore, I remember one night,
    Halloween, there was just this mob of Italian dudes letting off fireworks,
    and I guess somebody called the cops, and then so the cops showed up and
    the Italian dudes just started showering the cop cars with fireworks. That
    was pretty awesome. That was a very quintessential Drive moment.
  </p>
  <p>
    I don’t know, every year there’s so many [moments]. Italians have
    historically dominated this neighbourhood, but for a while there was that
    little Brazilian café with a really awesome Brazilian community, and so
    that just amped up the soccer World Cup insanity.
  </p>
  <p>
    I know some people find it annoying when there’s hooligans in the street,
    but I enjoy it. Makes me feel alive. So we have, yeah, a good hooligan
    population around here.
  </p>
  <p>
    Any last words? You can talk about Vancouver in general, as well.
  </p>
  <p>
    I just really, really hope, I mean right now what’s happening with real
    estate and housing is a global problem. There’s too much money sloshing
    around the world looking for safe places to be stashed and people who have
    it are wanting to start putting it in houses and I just really hope that we
    get some government, any government, with the political will to stem the
    tide of money that is distorting our housing market. It’s tearing our
    communities apart and I think it will actually really harm social cohesion
    in our society because it’s contributing so much to inequality.
  </p>
  <p>
    If you’re a lottery ticket winner who happens to hold the deed to some
    shitty eastbound house, you won the lottery over your neighbour who happens
    to rent and I think it’s a real shame. So I am watching people starting to
    leave Vancouver. I’ve been waiting for everyone to move to New Westminster
    for a long time and turn that into Vancouver’s Brooklyn. The queer
    community is still relevant to me, and I still want to live in a queer
    community, and I don’t know where it’s going to be when we get priced out
    of the city, which seems like only a matter of time. Those are my thoughts
    I guess. I’m hoping for a change, but we’ll see.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Andrea’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>
  <h2>
    Julia Lane
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “People See You When You’re Flustered
  </h2>
  <p>
    Julia Lane was interviewed on August 4, 2017, at Mount Pleasant Community
    Centre, as part of the <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/story-city">Story City</a> project.
  </p>
  <p>
    I came into the library. I had my stroller, I had like way too much stuff
    with me, as I usually do. So I had too much stuff, and I had a library
    fine, which never happens because I’m very fastidious about not having
    library fines. I was flustered, and I was wanting to pay my library fine.
    It wasn’t a lot of money, it was like $2, but I didn’t have any cash, I was
    trying to find cash, couldn’t find any cash. “So can I just pay you this
    with my debit card? I know it’s dumb, it’s only $2.” The librarian would
    say, “It’s okay, settle down, you’re fine.” And then some person came up
    behind me and he was like, “I’ll pay it for you, it’s fine,” and I was
    like, “No, no, I can pay it. It’s not like I don’t have the money.” He’s
    like, “No, you look like you’re having a rough day.” I said, “I’m actually
    fine, I’m not upset. I just have too many things and I’m flustered.” And so
    he paid the library fine for me after much protestation on my part, and he
    gave my son Felix five bucks, and I was like, “We really don’t need to take
    your money, sir. Like thank you, we’re fine.” And he was like, “No, no, I
    want him to have it, it’s his now.” That was an interesting moment where I
    was like, Wow, I must have come off very needy in this particular instance.
    But I just left feeling very like supported by the community here, feeling
    like, okay people see you when you’re flustered and might want to help out,
    so that was really nice.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Julia’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <h2>
    Grace Eiko Thomson
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “Education Is the Only Solution”
  </h2>
  <p>
    The Story City team was invited to Tonari Gumi, the Japanese Community
    Volunteers Association, to interview community members. We heard from a
    range of people speaking about their experience as Japanese-Canadians,
    their personal histories, and what Tonari Gumi means to them. Grace Eiko
    was interviewed at the same time as Judy Hanazawa, (the next interview in
    this book).
  </p>
  <p>
    My name is Grace Eiko Thomson. I’m a retired person, of course, and a
    senior, and I was a child when we were interned, and I used to be —I’m
    sorry, I’m making a mess. But I’m a historian and curator. I began as
    curator of art exhibitions, and then I’ve been working with the Japanese
    Canadian National Museum. I was the first Director Curator.
  </p>
  <p>
    I was going to ask whether you can start with your family’s journey to
    Vancouver perhaps.
  </p>
  <p>
    I was born in Steveston Japanese Fisherman’s Hospital in Steveston. Many
    children in those days went to that hospital because that was the first
    Japanese-Canadian hospital. In fact, it was very interesting that in
    Steveston, in producing this hospital, I would say that it was probably one
    of the first—or <em>the</em> first—Medicare or Canada’s … the Medicare that
    we have today. They already had it within that community, and that
    hospital, the members paid six dollars or whatever a year to be a member.
    But the hospital is open to everyone, anyone who want it. They had a plaque
    ceremony a few years ago, and I went to it and I was very surprised to see
    that not just Japanese-Canadians, but other residents of Steveston, were
    born there or had received service from that. Steveston is a very important
    part of Japanese-Canadian history. Of course, because that’s where the
    fisherman first came. The immigrants from Japan came as fisherman there,
    including my uncles.
  </p>
  <p>
    My father didn’t come until he was nineteen years old, after he had
    finished school. He came around 1921 or so, but he was told by his brothers
    not to get into fish, but to go and learn English. So as a result of that,
    he kind of travelled across all the way to Winnipeg, worked on the railway
    lines, and worked in the CPR hotels learning English. And then several
    years later, he went back to Japan and his parents had arranged for his
    marriage. So my mother came in 1930. And my father was told not to fish,
    but to learn English.
  </p>
  <p>
    In the 1930s he got a job in Vancouver in what is called Codfish
    Cooperative, which was a cooperative that included Aboriginal,
    Japanese-Canadians, and Caucasians. So that’s where he was working, and in
    1942 we were told that we had to leave our homes. We were living on
    Alexander Street in Vancouver.
  </p>
  <p>
    So, I was seven years old, I was going to Strathcona School, and because my
    mother was expecting her last child, which was her fifth child, we decided
    to move to Steveston where my uncle was living, and my uncle’s family was
    in Japan at that time, so he was living alone. So, he said, “Why don’t you
    come and move with me?” So, we moved to Steveston because Steveston has the
    Fisherman’s Hospital. So my younger sister was also born there. Then the
    Steveston fisherman were all pretty well-to-do, they’re well-established.
    So, they decided to go to a self-supporting place rather than the usual
    internment sites.
  </p>
  <p>
    So we went to a place called Ninto Mines, which was a lost gold-mine town,
    and so we spent the next few years there until 1944 or so, ’44 or ’45, just
    when the war ended. We were told that we couldn’t go back to our homes in
    Vancouver. In any event, the government had sold all our properties. Soon
    after the internment, we moved [to internment camps] around April of 1942,
    by January 1943 they were already starting to sell our properties. We had
    nothing to go back to. And then we were told to go east of the Rockies or
    go to Japan.
  </p>
  <p>
    My family decided that we would go to Manitoba because my father had been
    on the railway line, and knew that area, but we weren’t allowed to go into
    the city, so we were living in a couple of farm villages in Manitoba before
    we received notice of freedom of movement in 1949﻿–﻿50. So in 1950 we moved
    to Winnipeg.
  </p>
  <p>
    That’s the internment years, and I would say that as someone whose life was
    totally changed, I never really had a normal life because we were always
    moving, plus my mother could not speak English. So I was interpreting for
    her from the time I was little, and my father took a job wherever he could
    get. So, often, very often he was not living with us. He was coming home
    every second weekend. My brothers, too. My younger brothers were raised
    without proper guidance of a father, and the mother who couldn’t speak
    English. The responsibility for me was to look after my brothers. We would
    go to school together, and if there was a meeting with a teacher, I was the
    one who went to the meetings even though I was a kid.
  </p>
  <p>
    My life was totally dictated by the events of my life, and I didn’t go to
    university until I was married because before that, in the fifties, my
    parents were settling, and the first jobs I was getting was—I had trained
    myself to be a stenographer in order to help pay for the mortgage. I
    started going to university after I was married, and then I focused not on
    making money or having a good job so much as dealing with my own identity
    issues. I took courses like Asian art history in order to know about what
    my cultural background is, and western cultures. I studied those things,
    and so eventually I became a curator and a historian, and then when I moved
    to Vancouver twenty-two years ago, and I came to the Burnaby Art Gallery as
    a curator. The Burnaby Art Gallery was taken over by the city, so I quit
    because I don’t like a bureaucratic job.
  </p>
  <p>
    So, what happened then is the Japanese Canadian National Museum was being
    put together, and they asked me to be a consultant. I worked for almost a
    year as a volunteer consultant, then they hired me as their first Director
    Curator, because in order to apply for money, you had to have a position.
    During that period I totally focused on our history, and really got to
    understand it. So I would say that my whole life was dictated by the
    politics of our time, and I’m now eighty-three years old, and I have two
    sons, and five grandchildren. I’m very blessed, and I have no regrets now,
    but for many years I was very angry. So, I’m very lucky that I’m in good
    health, and also that I have resolved things within myself.
  </p>
  <p>
    I heard during one of the reconciliation events a couple of years ago, the
    sort of second-generation effects of traumatic events like the Holocaust,
    like internment. Do you feel like you’ve seen those kinds of effects in the
    later generations of the Japanese community? Did you actually see what
    happened?
  </p>
  <p>
    Well, it’s not so much repercussions as Canada is still not able to get
    over racist attitudes, and there’s still a large segment of our communities
    that don’t want to accept outsiders, even though the outsiders are the ones
    who are making Canada. Even before I was born, in 1907 there was a White
    Canada Only demonstration in Vancouver, where they came and smashed windows
    and things. And then of course our internment, too. They called us security
    risks, but it had nothing to do with security risks. Before the war, we
    didn’t even have the right to vote, and my parents were naturalized
    Canadians. I don’t know what that means—we were <em>born</em> in Canada.
    But in the United States, if you were born in the United States, you
    automatically became, according to the constitution, you become a full
    citizen. In Canada, that wasn’t the case. Even if you were born here, you
    never became citizens. So for that reason like in 1942 when we were
    interned, under the Geneva Convention you can’t intern. Internment is only
    for aliens. But then we didn’t have the right to vote, even though we were
    called naturalized Canadians. So that meant that if that the government
    evoked the War Measures Act, which allowed them to act through Cabinet, not
    Parliament, to put out orders for our internment and all that.
  </p>
  <p>
    So, in a way what happened to us is that the Government of Canada, they
    labelled us enemy aliens, which meant that we were aliens. But they didn’t
    call it internment, they called evacuation, like we were saved. But we know
    that we weren’t treated as full citizens, so we feel it’s justified to say
    we were interned.
  </p>
  <p>
    And even today, for instance, with refugees coming and all that, there are
    a lot of people﻿—I don’t know why they think they own this country when in
    fact it was taken over by displacing the First Nations people﻿—and they
    think they have a right to this place, that it is White Canada Only, that
    attitude still remains.
  </p>
  <p>
    It’s kind of sad. So, the 150th Anniversary, at least we had Truth and
    Reconciliation. Canadians are getting to know what happened to the
    Aboriginal communities, and I think that is a wonderful thing that we are
    slowly starting. At the same time, on the other hand, we still have a lot
    of racist attitudes. Things haven’t changed that much, in my opinion. But I
    did work with Chief Robert Joseph on his Reconciliation Canada project, and
    it was really a wonderful experience for me. A horrible experience learning
    about what happened to them, but for me I realized that —well, even
    throughout my career in working with the Inuit in the Northwest
    Territories, and then the Cree in Saskatchewan, I’ve worked with those
    communities—and realized that Japanese-Canadians are not the only ones who
    have been maltreated, and that helps you to resolve what you think was the
    worst thing that could happen.
  </p>
  <p>
    I could equate that in the last few months. I’ve been having terrible back
    pains. I pulled my back, and I think to myself, “Is that all that’s wrong
    with me?” I look around and there’s so many people having so many other
    horrible problems. So, you can’t kind of always think about how terrible
    things are for you. There’s much worse things going on around you. For me,
    meeting Chief Robert Joseph and taking part of Reconciliation Canada was a
    really good experience for me. I’m currently doing a lot of work in
    community work. Volunteer work.
  </p>
  <p>
    Just to bring this back to when you first returned to Vancouver. What made
    that decision for you?
  </p>
  <p>
    I returned to Vancouver only twenty-two years ago, and that decision was
    because my parents had moved back here in the sixties, and my mother had
    lost two of her children, and as well her husband, and she was alone. So I
    came back here. My younger brother was still living, but even there my
    mother lost three of her children before she died. So I came back mainly
    because my mother was alone.
  </p>
  <p>
    My parents moved back here in 1961, and in her memoir she writes that when
    they came, because they came up by train in those days, she said when she
    saw the mountains and everything, she said she had feelings of nostalgia
    returning to this place where they had started their marriage, their family
    life. She says this. But for me, I can’t say that I felt that at all,
    because Winnipeg had been my whole life, and coming back here probably made
    me face my own history much more closely than if I had remained in
    Winnipeg. Because Winnipeg at that time, when I was growing up, we were
    probably the first Asian people that a lot of people saw. There were
    Chinese restaurants and things, but there weren’t Chinese people or
    Japanese people walking the streets. So you kind of assimilated into the
    community.
  </p>
  <p>
    But when you come here, you really feel the Asian presence, and also the
    presence, still, of racism. Racism is something that you can’t erase
    totally. There’s always somebody there who’s going to make some comment.
    Even my children, who are mixed, when they were little, I could tell from
    the people in our neighbourhood that they saw my children as having a
    different mother. So they’re looked upon differently from other children.
    That’s the first time I realized that my intermarrying didn’t do anything
    in terms of getting rid of that aspect.
  </p>
  <p>
    So when you returned to Vancouver, was there a particular neighbourhood
    that you returned to?
  </p>
  <p>
    No, that’s another thing. Japanese-Canadians were told to go east of the
    Rockies, they called it a dispersal policy, and that meant that we were
    told that we should not be clustered because we are causing racism by
    living clustered. That’s what Prime Minister Mackenzie King said, and so we
    were careful not to live in the same neighbourhood. So when I came back to
    Vancouver, of course, the area where the Japanese-Canadians used to live in
    the Powell Street area, that had totally turned into a slum area, and it’s
    reviving now. But even so, today there’s the gentrification that’s going
    on. The developers moving in, and the people who are living there now are
    getting displaced. So that area has terrible history of displacement.
  </p>
  <p>
    Can you talk about the City apology?
  </p>
  <p>
    The City apologized, but at the same time: What’s “apology?” For me, City
    or the Province or the Canadian government apologizing without really doing
    something tangible, you know? I really think that education is a major
    thing that they failed on. Even if we get an apology, they don’t say,
    “Well, we’re going to make sure this doesn’t happen again, and it will be
    in the education system.”
  </p>
  <p>
    Seventy-five years later, it’s not in the school curriculum properly. It’s
    supposed to be in the curriculum, but it’s up to the teachers. So the
    teachers have to learn this. If the government doesn’t provide it in
    textbooks or whatever form, then the teachers are not going to take that
    time and energy to produce programs to teach it, because it’s not up to
    them. It’s on the curriculum, but it’s up to the teachers, how or when you
    produce it.
  </p>
  <p>
    So, it’s very individual based on the teacher’s willingness to do the
    education? So, you didn’t go back to …
  </p>
  <p>
    No, I didn’t go back. No, no. I was renting because I was working at the
    Burnaby Art Gallery. When I first moved, I moved with a friend. So we just
    chose anywhere. But I also lived in North Vancouver for a while and came
    over the Second Narrows Bridge to go to Burnaby Art Gallery to work. But
    finally, I live on Cambie and Sixteenth now. I chose that area. My son was
    saying, “If you’re not coming back to Winnipeg, then you should live
    somewhere where you can grow old without worrying about transportation and
    things.” So we chose that, and it’s been a good choice.
  </p>
  <p>
    It has nothing to do with our history because the area I had spent my first
    seven years in Vancouver is not an area that Japanese-Canadians moved back
    to. Because as I said, it used to be a thriving community. It had
    everything. My mother didn’t even have to learn English. All the streets
    were full of shops and everything. And that was totally destroyed. So there
    was no reason to come back, but our community has the annual Powell Street
    Festival to remember this, and also a lot of our community, young people,
    are now working with Downtown East Side groups to try to help with dealing
    with issues like displacements and the gentrification that is making it
    practically impossible for people living there as the rent goes up. And I’m
    troubled with rent going up. It doesn’t mean that the provincial government
    is going to raise their benefits.
  </p>
  <p>
    At this moment, Vancouver east side is going through terrible issues that
    have to be resolved, and I don’t know how they can resolve it. But I’m
    really, really grateful, and happy that our younger generation within the
    Chinese community as well as the Japanese community are working in that
    community, helping. For me that didn’t happen ten years ago. Everybody
    tried to <em>forget</em> the past. And now there’s much more attention paid
    to it. Because if you understand your past, then you can do something in
    the present, because you don’t want that to happen again. But if you don’t
    know anything about your past, you don’t do anything.
  </p>
  <p>
    So I think that things are changing, but the overall Vancouver situation, I
    don’t think is getting better.
  </p>
  <p>
    Are there any last words that you’d like to tell?
  </p>
  <p>
    I think, for me, my end is getting near, and I’m still trying to write a
    bit of a memoir to leave behind, because my mother left me one. So the main
    thing is: Act according to your heart, according to who you are. But also
    that I would really like to push education. To me, education is the only
    solution, in my opinion, and I think many of our community members know
    this, and they’re working on it. We have really good people like Laura
    working on it, and Judy [Hanazawa] is the Human Rights Committee person.
    She’s chair of our main organization. So I feel very good that there are
    many people involved right now.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Grace’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>
  <h2>
    Judy Hanazawa
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “Vancouver Needs to Learn as We Go”
  </h2>
  <p>
    The Story City team was invited to Tonari Gumi, the Japanese Community
    Volunteers Association, to interview community members. We heard from a
    range of people speaking about their experience as Japanese-Canadians,
    their personal histories, and what Tonari Gumi means to them. Judy was
    interviewed at the same time as Grace Eiko Thomson, (the previous interview
    in this book).
  </p>
  <p>
    My mother went back to Japan during the thirties as a young child and
    returned again when she was fifteen, and she and my father just got married
    at the point where Pearl Harbor happened. Everybody was living in
    Steveston, and they just married, and my sister was born in ’41 and then
    everybody had to go through the internment.
  </p>
  <p>
    As Grace had mentioned, there were many Japanese-Canadian fishing families
    who were able to get into the self-supporting camps, which is what happened
    with my family. So they ended up in Bridge River, which is near Lillooet,
    that area—my grandparents, my mother and father, and my sister, who was
    already born in Steveston, and then my middle sister was actually born in
    Bridge River.
  </p>
  <p>
    The difference in her life—being a premature, very tiny, tiny baby—and my
    mother’s hardship, I think indicated how tough life was in Bridge River.
    Eventually my father found work in a sawmill in Merritt, so my family and a
    few other Japanese-Canadian families moved to Merritt, which is where I was
    born.
  </p>
  <p>
    The connection to Vancouver is that rather than go right back to Steveston
    post-war, my father was able to get back into fishing by 1950 because all
    the Japanese-Canadians were able to return in 1949, back to the coast. Many
    families didn’t, but my family I think had a very attached attitude about
    ocean and fishing and their livelihood, so everybody returned to fishing,
    and my father did in 1950. But they decided to move into Downtown Eastside
    Vancouver, Strathcona. And it’s true what Grace has said about families not
    returning and the community in that area of Vancouver being decimated,
    because there was no more Powell Street corridor of Japanese shops in the
    town there.
  </p>
  <p>
    But there was still the Japanese language school, there was still the
    Vancouver Buddhist Temple, and so my parents felt that there was the
    beginning of a tiny community to begin growing. I went to Strathcona
    elementary school, post-war, as my sisters did as well, and I grew up in
    Eastside Vancouver in Strathcona until I was fifteen years old.
  </p>
  <p>
    And I just totally thought that the kind of life there for a child growing
    up was normal, which it was, and yet what was so wonderful about
    Strathcona, in that era of post-war Vancouver, was that there was all kinds
    of children of all kinds of ethnic backgrounds. Including the
    African-Canadians families in the Hogan’s Alley area.
  </p>
  <p>
    It was a time when we all knew we were from culturally different
    backgrounds, but somehow we were all Strath kids, and we were all Eastside
    kids, and I think the friendships that were made there are lasting to this
    day. So of course I’ve got my Strathcona friends, and so do my sisters, and
    there’s a lot of crossover, even though the Chinese-Canadian community and
    Japanese-Canadian community were not connected really, and
    Chinese-Canadians really had issues about Japan because of what happened in
    China. So grandparents had these attitudes, and yet us kids at Strathcona
    totally mingled and there were marriages later, there were couples going
    steady, it was quite a mixed, wonderful kind of little growing-up
    environment for us kids.
  </p>
  <p>
    Strathcona was interesting, too, because many of the teachers were
    British—Anglo-Saxon—and so they had this kind of British attitude about
    things, too, and yet they were trying to create us into little sort of
    British-attitude kids, stiff upper lip and so on. It was kind of a strange
    mix.
  </p>
  <p>
    In the middle of that there was a Jewish music teacher, Mr. Goldberg, who
    was wonderful, and he created his own operas, and we all had operas every
    second year at Strathcona. It was wonderful.
  </p>
  <p>
    But anyway, at the point where everybody else went to Britannia High School
    in Eastside Vancouver, the expropriation of properties in Vancouver
    happened in the ‘60s and so the pressure was on to sell property to bring
    in the freeway entrance which was the plan at the time. And that’s why
    Hogan’s Alley disappeared, too.
  </p>
  <p>
    So at that point, my parents sold because there was pressure to sell to the
    city, and we moved to South Vancouver, which was a completely different
    life for me, I was the one who went through high school at Killarney High
    School. And it was a sea of white faces, and for the first time I knew what
    it was to be a minority, to feel the sort of veiled racism quite a lot, and
    realize that Strathcona was very special.
  </p>
  <p>
    I did graduate from Killarney, I went to UBC, I became a social worker
    later. I married, you’ll find that in the third generation of our Japanese
    Canadian community, there was totally majority of outmarriage. My husband
    was Caucasian, a music teacher. It was an interesting life. We had two
    children, he’s passed away now, but sometimes I think he had issues with
    his own stability.
  </p>
  <p>
    But as I graduated from university, I became a social worker; he was a
    music teacher. We went up north, our children were born in Hundred Mile.
    Our marriage didn’t work out, and I came back to Vancouver eventually.
  </p>
  <p>
    At the point of Japanese-Canadians getting Redress, I was able to get money
    because of being in that age group which was affected by the internment. So
    with my own $21,000, I went back to school and got a Master’s of Social
    Work, and became a single parent raising my children.
  </p>
  <p>
    Also it connected me to the Squamish Nation, where I continue to have ties
    to this day, and that’s where I basically learned what it was to work in
    your community, and to look to supporting your own community. I learned so
    much from my ties to the Nation, and all the strong women, mostly, who I
    worked with there. And also I became quite sensitized to aboriginal issues
    and aboriginal rights, and the unresolved issues for their community.
  </p>
  <p>
    At that point of my marriage, me single parenting, I finished my university
    and then I ended up working in the Vancouver area. I even worked in
    Strathcona as a social worker again. It was interesting to do that. And it
    was also very, very challenging because of the unresolved issues with
    aboriginal women, Downtown Eastside Vancouver, and the struggles of
    poverty. All those things became very much an awareness of the ongoing
    struggles of so many communities.
  </p>
  <p>
    This was in the nineties, in the nineties, it was very difficult. However,
    I also became quite involved in my own community being inspired by working
    at Squamish Nation, and receiving my Redress money. And so I did become
    involved in human rights issues and social justice issues in my own
    community.
  </p>
  <p>
    And that this point now, my children are grown, I’m a grandparent. And
    again, it’s interesting how our own Japanese-Canadian community has gone
    through various changes. It’s very clear that most of my generation, my
    third generation, outmarried. And so we have many children who I think were
    driven by their own need for identity to come back to know more about their
    Japanese-Canadian roots.
  </p>
  <p>
    It’s certainly affected a lot of the young people that we work with now,
    who are, as Grace said, they’re working in the Downtown Eastside.
    Understanding that their great grandparents were there as well, and
    understanding what displacement is. The great work they’re doing is in
    partnering with the residents of the Downtown Eastside.
  </p>
  <p>
    The blending of our history with the current issues of the day, and making
    sure that it’s relevant by standing with people who are facing
    displacement. It’s a very great concern that we have in the human rights
    area of our community, tied in with the young leaders who are doing the
    work, right in the area.
  </p>
  <p>
    I agree with Grace that I see a lot of positive change and yet, it’s just
    seeing how the waves of generations have come through. For sure Vancouver,
    I think, needs to learn as we go, too. We’ve gone to city council about the
    Downtown Eastside issues. We’ve wanted to say to council “As you apologize
    to Japanese-Canadians about displacement in the forties, you cannot ignore
    displacement going on in that very area where many Japanese-Canadians
    lived.”
  </p>
  <p>
    And so we’re going to be holding the city to making sure about that, so our
    role is in backing up and standing with the people of the area. At this
    point now, it’s just a matter of more work in that area, and seeing as
    Grace said, that we need to stand with the First Nations as well, and I
    completely feel that way, too, because of my ability to work in the
    community at Squamish Nation. It’s been quite an eye-opening experience.
  </p>
  <p>
    There’s such a great acceptance of humanity that First Nations people hold.
    Their first tendency is to show respect, and give respect. And it’s
    incredible to me, with what has happened in their community, that they
    still hold to those principles no matter what. And it’s been very
    gratifying for me to be able to work there.
  </p>
  <p>
    Can you talk a little bit about how you first got involved in the Squamish
    nation?
  </p>
  <p>
    Yeah, I went back to UBC because of the Redress payment I received and I
    was able to go into the Masters of Social Work program. And my practicum
    placement—
  </p>
  <p>
    One of the issues I was aware of from being a social worker <em>without</em> a degree—I had a B.A. and I worked for the province—was
    the high number of aboriginal children in care. One child that I had worked
    with had attempted suicide because he was adopted by non-First Nations
    people, and they had a marriage breakdown and had issues of their own, and
    they actually brought him back to the Ministry to say, “We cannot, our
    marriage is breaking down, we cannot continue to look after him.” And he
    was fifteen years old, and he became a child on my caseload after he
    attempted suicide. And so some of our work was to try to reconnect him back
    to his nation.
  </p>
  <p>
    So being aware of that, and aware that First Nations were beginning to do
    their own child welfare work, I went into getting my degree and got placed
    at Squamish Nation with that kind of focus of saying, “If you’d like me to
    help in this area, I’m available.” Which is exactly what we did. We
    developed the Nation’s own agency in the Nation, and we still had to use
    the provincial law, but it was on the terms of applying it within their own
    community, using culture and values of the people.
  </p>
  <p>
    And it’s still evolving in that way now. So that was how I got connected
    there. And then regarding Vancouver, I live in Eastside Vancouver, I still
    feel very strong ties to Strathcona.
  </p>
  <p>
    It’s interesting, like I said, I feel the ties to the Downtown Eastside and
    the language school, it does hold Japanese-Canadians together, there still,
    because of the Buddhist temple at the corner of Jackson and Powell. And the
    language school which also has community events on Alexander. So there are
    gatherings in the area, for sure.
  </p>
  <p>
    There are some gathering places, but I do agree with Grace, it’s nowhere
    near what it was. There is not the community that there was before. I think
    it’s helped to have the post-Redress funding towards to different
    organizations who gather people, like Tonari Gumi, they gather there, and a
    lot of seniors still go there. And that’s a good thing.
  </p>
  <p>
    The Japanese language school has a community hall connected, as well. So
    those are places for gathering and there have been large events there.
  </p>
  <p>
    Did you go to the language school?
  </p>
  <p>
    I did. That was the fairly common thing with us Japanese-Canadian kids in
    post-war Eastside Vancouver. We often went to the language school three
    days a week, after English school. So it wasn’t unusual to go Tuesday,
    Thursday, Saturday morning to Japanese school. When you went Monday to
    Friday to Strathcona for regular school, yeah, I did go.
  </p>
  <p>
    And your children, did you decide to put them in language school as well?
  </p>
  <p>
    I tried for a bit, but we were living out in the Fraser Valley. There was a
    woman who wanted to start a Japanese school, and she tried for the one
    month and then she gave up. We even had some lessons right in my house, but
    yeah, they don’t have the language. And my own language, my mom passed away
    in 2006, so she was the one person I used to speak to. So the language,
    it’s one of the major things that is a very concrete thing, if you look at
    our community, and the effects of interment, and of racism. And what Grace
    is saying is very true, it’s always been an issue. And we’re going to have
    an intergenerational gathering, I think at the end of this year, and the
    matter of what everybody went through, the racism in their life experience,
    is very concrete for everybody. So it’s not something that somebody can
    say, “Well, we’ve outgrown that,” or, “We’ve evolved.” No, it’s still very
    much there, and you always have to address it and be proactive about it.
    It’s always there to be proactive about, it’s always there.
  </p>
  <p>
    And in this era, too, we were just talking [about] what happened at the
    anti-racism march in March when the Sons of Odin appeared and threw smoke
    bombs at the people.
  </p>
  <p>
    So those things are happening as well, and so I think it’s always an issue.
    And for my children, it’s an issue as well. Because they’re biracial, the
    thing for them to get asked is, “What are you?” The thing for me to have
    gotten asked was, “So where’s your family from?” You know? Because there’s
    an assumption you’re a perpetual foreigner.
  </p>
  <p>
    I’m always nice, so I say, “Well, I’m Japanese-Canadian,” so they know, but
    the fact that I’m a third generation wouldn’t have occurred to anybody,
    because people make assumptions because of your appearance. You were born
    somewhere else and you’re here as an immigrant.
  </p>
  <p>
    Did any of the grandkids go into the language schools yet? Are they still
    young?
  </p>
  <p>
    Yeah, my granddaughter actually did go to the language school. It was an
    interesting experience because more of the kids who go to language school
    speak Japanese at home. And there are quite a number of Japanese-born women
    who’ve married Canadian husbands, and so there’s biracial children who’ve
    spoken Japanese at home because of their moms, and who’ve gone on to
    language school.
  </p>
  <p>
    And my granddaughter didn’t have that. So she’s in French immersion now,
    but it was kind of difficult for her, and so my daughter decided in the end
    to focus on her getting involved in other things and then she went on to
    French. She’s nine now.
  </p>
  <p>
    It is very much a language loss. Even though I went to Japanese school and
    I spoke Japanese with my mother, my language is very not there. Grace is
    really lucky, she’s good at language, Japanese speaking. Her mom taught her
    at home, and she retained it.
  </p>
  <p>
    So she’s a phenomenon because there are many people who are even Grace’s
    age who don’t speak Japanese very much at all. And so the manner of what
    happens to a community with issues like internment and so on, one very
    concrete loss is language. Huge loss, because language does retain culture
    embedded in it.
  </p>
  <p>
    In some ways, there was a desire not to be hated, not to be the enemy
    alien. And so there was almost a decision with some families to not teach
    their children. But, you know, that’s a direct result of the historic
    situation for our community and social attitudes like racism, but still,
    that systemic racism decided upon what happened with our community and so
    one of the losses that is very concrete to me is the loss of the language.
    And culture. And as you become, you’re here, you do evolve as Canadian with
    the generations, but with the freedom to evolve in your own way, but with
    our community that freedom was taken, right? So it’s just abrupt. You can
    see the abruptness in this third generation of what happened. Yeah. So.
    Anyway. [<em>laughs</em>] It’s so heavy duty. But this is Vancouver’s
    story, too.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Grace’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <h2>
    Sophia Karasouli-Milobar
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “Where Is a Greek Church?”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Sophia Karasouli-Milobar was interviewed on January 26, 2017, as part of
    the Hellenic Stories project.
  </p>
  <p>
    I came to Canada in 1990. I’m a different type of immigrant. I was not a
    refugee, or an economic immigrant. I came because I met my husband while we
    were both studying in England and we fell in love. He was Canadian, and we
    decided to come here. So in a way, it was much easier for me coming here.
    In that sense, I came here with a Canadian who knew the system, had family.
    I knew English, because I was a Master’s degree student in England. So I
    didn’t have any difficulties, really, with the language, and still it was
    very difficult.
  </p>
  <p>
    I remember the very first thing I did was to ask around: “Where is a Greek
    church? Where is a Greek community?” I felt I was so far away from my
    country, and from my own family, and my parents, and everybody else. And
    somehow the distance, the long flight, made me realise how far I am and how
    difficult it will be to visit. When I was in England I could really get
    back home much easier.
  </p>
  <p>
    Anyway, so they told me about the community, and I came here. I think it
    was the second day I was in Canada, we didn’t even have a place to stay;
    we’re staying with an aunt of my husband [and] he told me where the Greek
    community is, and I came and met with the secretary. She was from my part
    of the world. And we started talking about some people that I knew and she
    knew, and I felt so much better, right away.
  </p>
  <p>
    And then she said “You come to the church on Sunday and you will meet more
    people.” And I was never truly a churchgoer before. I would go on feast
    days, but I wasn’t a regular Sunday churchgoer. But I went. People really
    welcomed me after the service. I was introduced by the secretary to some of
    her friends. And they were so happy to see someone from Greece. Some of
    them remembered themselves, when they came, and they didn’t know anyone. I
    had some people who really opened their arms, so to speak, and they
    welcomed me. They invited me and my husband to their place for dinner. Or
    there was a picnic that the Greeks would organize, and we would go.
  </p>
  <p>
    And very soon I started to feel I belong somewhere. And I can hear my
    language and I can speak my language. And although, as I said, that was not
    an issue, because I did know English, still I felt at home speaking and
    hearing Greek being spoken. So anyway, then I started coming to the church
    on a regular basis. And it was more that, not just the religious aspect,
    but the social aspect. That was a way of connecting with the community.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Sophia’s interview and other Hellenic Stories
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>
  <h2>
    Angelo Pappas
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “Greeks Are Citizens of the World”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Angelo Pappas was interviewed on February 5, 2017, at the Hellenic
    Community Centre as part of the Hellenic Stories project.
  </p>
  <p>
    My dad came to Canada in 1910, and he arrived from New York and went
    straight to Prince George. There were jobs there in those days. There were
    many Greeks in those days. They came to Canada, especially British
    Columbia, for work.
  </p>
  <p>
    And of course they worked in any way they could find a job. But since he
    knew the language, he later on became foreman when they were building the
    Grand Tram Railway from Prince Rupert to Prince George, from there all the
    way to Vancouver. He had more than two hundred people, and he had many
    native people.
  </p>
  <p>
    Now this story, it wasn’t given to me from my father. But this story was
    given to me from an elderly Indian person, here, when I came in 1956, later
    on. I mean, about ’57, ’58. This old fellow, it was down on Pender Street,
    and he told me, he said, “Pappas … oh Pappas,” he says. “I had a friend,”
    he says. Actually he said, “We had a friend, the native people: Pappas,
    George. And he was from a small village in Greece, and he was foreman when
    we were building the railroad. And he always cared for the native people
    and gave us jobs.
  </p>
  <p>
    “And I was a water boy,” he said. “I was a water boy, and I never forget
    him.” And he told me all the story. And I went to Smithers, one time, to
    find out, because it was in the archives there: how it was built, and how
    people were doing it —handwork, everything.
  </p>
  <p>
    And I found quite a few things. But I knew further on, the story, from my
    dad and from my uncle. They were working with the fur industry later on. As
    they were working in the railways, they were buying furs and selling furs,
    pelts.
  </p>
  <p>
    And later on it became a company, what was known here in Vancouver, the
    Pappas Furs, Western Canada Fur Auction. And that is the company that I
    worked for. I came right into it.
  </p>
  <p>
    I travelled throughout the North, the Arctic, everywhere in the Arctic,
    western Arctic and eastern Arctic, meeting with Eskimos and Inuit and
    native peoples and white people, working, because I was in the business, in
    the fur business. But in my capacity, to advise …about the quality of the
    fur pelts, and that’s why I went there. I wasn’t going just for business,
    but I was going as an advisor to talk to natives, to people, to see when to
    take the pelts, when the quality is good, when to trap them, when it is
    breeding season to avoid it, and how to protect the species. It was
    something that I was very much interested with.
  </p>
  <p>
    And this is what made me really tied up to the country, tied up. When you
    are young, you’re a little bit on these things. You are really
    enthusiastic, and I was enthusiastic, and I participated in many other
    committees, in political committees, and everything, because I wanted to be
    part of what was happening, how this country was built, and how this
    province was built, and everything.
  </p>
  <p>
    And it takes us to where we are today. And many years, of course, we had to
    work, to work for the community, to build up the community. And this story
    is what brings me, ties me to the country. Not only that my parents were
    here early, before we were born, or my brother was born here. But it ties
    me to the development of the country.
  </p>
  <p>
    We had to find time for the development of the community. The community was
    built by people who came here in the turn of the nineteenth century, early,
    on 7th Avenue. It was 2305 West 7th Avenue. That’s where the Hellenic
    Community was. That’s where the Saint George original cathedral was. Today
    it’s used by the Kitsilano groups, and they have the homes and everything.
    But they use that old church as a referral centre for many people.
  </p>
  <p>
    And lately Father Costantinos, they have a Divine Liturgy once a year,
    because they want it. They said their community should have a Divine
    Liturgy once a year, or twice a year. So Father Costantinos was kind
    enough, because young people are a little bit more spiritual, do those
    things.
  </p>
  <p>
    And that keeps the span of the community life, the history of the community
    together, without [selling] the property, without, “Well, we’re not there
    anymore. That’s nothing.” But it’s not. The sentimental is there. The
    sentimental is there: You don’t sell church.
  </p>
  <p>
    But this property, this is how it’s done here. For instance, in Greece,
    church is here, from the third century. It just stays there. Nobody can
    sell it. Nobody can move it, nothing. It stays there. You have been to
    Greece. You have seen all the churches there, little tiny one churches. But
    it brings history from the first Christians.
  </p>
  <p>
    We moved here, and we had to develop the property. More people were coming
    in the sixties. Actually after the middle of the fifties—’55, ’56—up to the
    end of the sixties, it was a lot of Greek people were coming. And new
    families, lots of kids. Greek schools had more than a thousand students in
    the early seventies. There was four schools, and they had at least three
    hundred plus, each school.
  </p>
  <p>
    And of course, those kids grew up. They got married, new generation,
    everything. Now, of course, it is in a form of the communities, part of the
    general community. When we opened this community centre, we had to make
    sure that this community centre wasn’t a sort of community centre for the
    Greek community. It was a community centre to be used by the neighbours, to
    be used by the community at large.
  </p>
  <p>
    We built here in excess of what we were allowed, footage. But we asked the
    city, “This building will be open to the community.” It’s not only
    Hellenic. And it was used, and is used, all the time. People to come use
    for meetings, for this, for seniors, all kinds of people, political
    gatherings, or whatever.
  </p>
  <p>
    And this is good because it ties the community to the rest of the
    community, to be part of what we are. You see, what I believe—and all of us
    believe, especially, the ones we found here—that we must contribute to the
    development of the Canadian society. We must be there, like the country is
    a mosaic. It’s like a dome in those churches in Europe. And that mosaic, by
    itself is no good, nothing. But all together makes the edifice—that is the
    important thing.
  </p>
  <p>
    And we wanted to be part of that. So when English-speaking people or
    French-speaking people or any other people come to the community here, they
    feel they’re in their home. They don’t feel that they’re in a private club
    or something. They feel they are home.
  </p>
  <p>
    That’s what the Greeks are. They are citizens of the world, really, from
    the ancient times, keep on traveling, only few, but you must spread it
    along.
  </p>
  <p>
    And I would say that we are very happy about it, what we came. And the
    festivals that is done, the Greek Day that was established at the time we
    built this community centre was part of that just to open it up. Food
    festivals and everything in order to collect money, of course, to sustain
    the society and the buildings itself. But it was with the idea, an open
    door, an open window to everybody. And it’s worked. It’s worked.
  </p>
  <p>
    We just hope that the new generation now will do that, will continue that,
    and I think they will. Because the new generation have more, how can I put
    it? More to themselves, they are established, they’re educated in this
    country.
  </p>
  <p>
    When we came here, we were just plain people, immigrants from the old
    country. I had the Board of Directors —I was the President, and sometimes,
    there’s not one who knows English, and I knew not much myself. You know?
  </p>
  <p>
    But we had to do it. I reached outside. I went to people who were educated,
    and I said, “I need you.” “Oh, I haven’t got time.” “Yes, but I have to
    send a letter to the Prime Minister. You want me to write it? And ridicule
    everybody?” I said, “Or you want to come and help me to write it? I’ll give
    you my opinion, my ideas, but you write it.” You know?
  </p>
  <p>
    And many people told me, “Oh, you S.O.B., you know how to get people
    together.” But it was the truth. That was the truth. That’s how it was. It
    was the influx of the new Greeks in the fifties and sixties, were the older
    ones that were born here, for some reason, they were just overshadowed on
    the side. So what I always wanted to make sure they come in.
  </p>
  <p>
    In this property, we got $400,000 from the government. And why we got it?
    Because it was just that. This property, it will be made available to
    everybody. The city wanted something like that, but it’s the Province who
    insisted that we want something like that because all community centres,
    they were not open to people, sort of. But this was open to everybody. So
    there was program in the federal government in those days, but it was in
    1970, ’75. It was a program from the federal government that any project,
    city or public project, when it belongs to individual societies and made
    available to the rest of the community, they will contribute part of it.
  </p>
  <p>
    So we came in, and of course, they contributed, but part of the thing, it
    was that we are open to everybody. So many times—maybe I bore you with
    this—people they say, “But Angelo, twenty-five years passed.” Yes, but our
    commitment hasn’t passed. It will never pass. Twenty-five years it was,
    that we have to have it open for everybody. But our commitment is to the
    community at large. And we’re part of the community at large.
  </p>
  <p>
    I have five grandchildren. They’re not going to be around because they are
    the community at large, right? And this way, it makes it easy for them.
    They feel proud to be part of what we are. And I think, in a small way, the
    Greek community [of] Vancouver contributed a lot to the development of the
    city. It has a good name, very good name out there, very good name.
  </p>
  <p>
    We took part with committees in the multicultural societies. We had a
    committee to be part of the discussion, national discussions on that, on
    the immigration. We were present in those important negotiations, in the
    last few years as they take place.
  </p>
  <p>
    And I think we should be proud about it. And I am. I am, and I think
    everything’s fine.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Angelo’s interview and other Hellenic Stories
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>
  <h2>
    Nikki Roussanidis
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “A Community of Really Tight-Knit Families”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Nikki Roussanidis was interviewed on February 1, 2017, as part of the
    Hellenic Stories project.
  </p>
  <p>
    My name is Nikki Roussanidis, and my maiden name was Balatsas. My family
    came to Canada, my mom and dad, came to Canada in 1954. Came into Regina
    and then moved to Kitimat in 1956, then came back down to Vancouver in 1960
    or ’61.
  </p>
  <p>
    That year, my father opened up his first business in Vancouver, Leo and
    Chris’ Service Station. It was an establishment, a Texaco station, on the
    corner of Broadway and Carolina from 1961 to 1984. His brother and himself,
    Chris Balatsas and Leo Balatsas, opened up a second service station in 1977
    on 49th and Victoria Drive. They were prominent businessmen in the Greek
    community, both of them.
  </p>
  <p>
    Growing up, it’s all I can remember, as a real youngster, having to go to
    the Texaco on Broadway to visit my father because he worked literally from
    sunup to sundown. There were days that we hadn’t seen him for days, and my
    mother would drive us to the gas station so we could see my dad.
  </p>
  <p>
    And then later on in life, at twelve years old, it didn’t matter at this
    point whether I was a boy or a girl. I started working at the gas station
    pumping gas, as all my friends worked in their parents’ business. A lot of
    them were lucky, they had restaurants so they were indoors. But I have
    pumped many tanks of gas in a skirt and shoes.
  </p>
  <p>
    What else can I tell you? Growing up in Vancouver, it was a really small
    community of really tight-knit families. People that had immigrated at the
    same time. A lot of them knew each other from Greece, as my parents knew a
    lot of people that they grew up together in Greece, in Piraeus, and came
    here and met again in Vancouver. We were like a small family of families.
    People are still referred to as Uncle John or Uncle Nick or Aunt Tessie or
    Thia Georgia because it was so close.
  </p>
  <p>
    Of course with my uncle’s family, my dad and his brother, we were together
    dinners, Easter, Christmas, and weekly visits three, four times a week,
    even though they worked together all day. But everybody I knew worked in
    their parents’ business, it was a given back then. We didn’t have a choice.
  </p>
  <p>
    I guess the other good thing about growing up here is when I was a teenager
    at fourteen, they resurrected the Maids of Athena, which is the girls’
    subsidiary of the AHEPA, American Hellenic Educational Progressive
    Association.
  </p>
  <p>
    The AHEPA was the men’s association. The Daughters of Penelope was the
    women’s association. The Sons of Pericles was the teenaged boys’
    association. The Maids of Athena was the girls’ association.
  </p>
  <p>
    The Maids of Athena got resurrected because the chapter always evolved. And
    then when the girls grew up, they left. Then it dissolved, and then they
    would resurrect it. When I was fourteen, we resurrected the Maids of Athena
    with about twenty teenaged girls.
  </p>
  <p>
    At that time it was in the seventies, so disco was a big hit here. We held
    a fundraiser down here in the Greek community, in this hall. We had over
    three hundred, four hundred kids attend at a dollar a ticket. Our chapter
    made a lot of money that one night. At one dollar a ticket, you can imagine
    when fifty cents for pop, because we couldn’t have alcohol. We were all
    underage and we got chaperoned. We gave it all to charity, as I recall. I
    happened to be the president of the Maids that year, for two years running.
  </p>
  <p>
    What else can I tell you about the Daughters of Penelope, which everybody
    wants me to talk about? The Daughters of Penelope in Vancouver has been
    running strong for a number of years. I’m going to say some time in the
    fifties. I’m not exactly sure. Mary Leonidasv and Marie Kyriakos and Lili
    Spilos, Sara Anton, who was the pianist for the church for many, many
    years, were some of the founding members. My mother, Elizabeth Balatsas, is
    still a member. She’s eighty-nine years old. The chapter’s still going
    okay.
  </p>
  <p>
    And so the society raises money for charities?
  </p>
  <p>
    The Daughters of Penelope, again, the women’s subsidiary of the AHEPA,
    raises money for charities. Some of our notable charities, we raised the
    first $25,000 seed money to start the Hellenic Chair at SFU. Over the
    years, cancer research, Doctors Without Borders, Covenant House, Food Bank.
    Most recently, we gave another major donation to BC Children’s Hospital in
    the amount of $25,000. We gave $10,000 to MS research probably in the last
    fifteen years. It’s a small group of women now.
  </p>
  <p>
    Regrettably, the interest has died. The older women are too old to
    fundraise, and younger women don’t see it as a necessity to come out and
    bond with other Greek women and do that sort of fundraising, regrettably.
    The Philoptochos does a lot of that. It’s one of those things, right?
  </p>
  <p>
    A few of the other people have been talking about where you would hang out
    and talk with other people or just hang out with other people that you knew
    in the Greek community.
  </p>
  <p>
    When we were kids, you mean?
  </p>
  <p>
    When you were kids, yeah.
  </p>
  <p>
    Oh, God, Bino’s. Everybody went to Bino’s on Broadway and Arbutus.
  </p>
  <p>
    What was Bino’s?
  </p>
  <p>
    It was just a coffee place. Bino’s was a chain of all night long —it’s like
    a Denny’s, let’s put it that way. We’d go to Bino’s. There was a place
    called Tuesday’s on Broadway. All the Greek kids would hang out there. It
    was a given, Sunday night everybody went to Tuesday’s for coffee.
  </p>
  <p>
    After the clubs, everybody went to Bino’s or Denny’s for breakfast. We had
    the GOYA here for a while, so Father Partsafas office has the GOYA going in
    the Community Centre. The GOYA, when I was a part of it, we actually did
    some traveling down to the States and met other chapters from Seattle. When
    I was part of the Maids of Athena, again, we brought the chapters from
    Seattle and Portland. I can’t remember what other —Spokane, possibly. We
    had sleepovers and we went back and forth. It was a very, very simple
    childhood.
  </p>
  <p>
    The Greek community was sort of like the hub for us. Our parents, if we
    told them we were coming here for an event, they never batted an eye.
    Everybody met here for one thing or another. They started—I don’t know—some
    sports activities. I don’t remember. We had volleyball going. Too far back
    to remember.
  </p>
  <p>
    Was that mostly at this current location?
  </p>
  <p>
    This current location. Yeah. That’s why they built it. My father was on the
    board here for many, many, many, many years. Again, Wednesday night was a
    meeting, Monday night was a meeting, this was a meeting, that was a
    meeting. The immigrants that came here really strived to build this
    community centre for their kids and their grandkids. All of it was
    volunteer back then. I don’t think there were any paid positions other than
    the secretary of the community, I think. The priest, obviously, but the man
    has to live.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Nikki’s interview and other Hellenic Stories
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <h2>
    Effie Karapidakis
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “Which Is Your Homeland: Greece, Crete, or Canada?”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Euthalia (Effie) Karapidakis was interviewed on February 5, 2017, as part
    of the Hellenic Stories project. The original interview was conducted in
    Greek, and transcribed and translated at Vancouver Public Library.
  </p>
  <p>
    My name is Euthalia Karapidakis, and I have been in Vancouver since 1964. I
    came here engaged, my fiancé having been here before me, in order to get
    married. We got married at Saint George’s church, at Seventh and Vine. And
    we baptized our children there. Later on, I got pregnant. I have two
    children, two sons. As things turned out, one of them lives in Greece right
    now, in the place I came from. I was born in Heraklion, Crete. That’s where
    I came from. And my child lives there now, in the same house I grew up, my
    son with his wife and their two daughters. We have been going back to
    Greece, we kept visiting to Greece all these years.
  </p>
  <p>
    We kept special ties with our homeland all these years, and that’s why my
    children loved Greece, although they were not born there. We had that
    longing of returning to the homeland and we tried twice to go and settle
    back there. We sold everything here, we put our belongings to containers
    and returned to Greece. Our children grew up, they finished high school,
    and one after the other—they are three years apart—went to University in
    Greece, again having in mind that they will settle and stay there. We kept
    visiting Greece every year since our children were here and we still do,
    until last year when we got a small apartment near our children. We hope,
    now that we are both pensioners, that we will go and spend our last years
    there. Last summer, last year that I was in Greece close to my children for
    three months, my son often asked me a question, which I would like to
    repeat here. He was asking: “Which is your homeland: Greece, Crete, or
    Canada?” However, when I am in Greece, the first two-three months I am OK.
    It is summer, summer vacations. When we stay longer, I start to miss
    Vancouver, our friends. We have been here for so many years, almost
    fifty-two. So many years, I have made so many friends that I can easily
    say—in my mind and my heart—they can even replace my family.
  </p>
  <p>
    How was Vancouver when you first came here?
  </p>
  <p>
    When I first came here, I liked it. I am a person who likes the company of
    people. When I came here, I looked for opportunities to get involved in the
    community. I tried to help at the old church—of course, it was not very
    organized in the old days. I lived in the area of Main Street. We lived
    there the first years. We rented only for one year when I first came, Main
    and Twenty-Sixth. Then we bought a house on Main and Thirtieth. We lived
    there for many years. Then we bought a house near Oakridge Centre. We
    stayed there until 1992 when we moved to Richmond. The last nine years I
    have been a board member of the Hellenic Community of Saint George’s, and
    the last six years I have been a Treasurer of the Community
  </p>
  <p>
    Have you served in the Philoptochos all these years?
  </p>
  <p>
    I am a member of the Philoptochos all these years. I was a board member for
    twenty-five years. For six or eight years—I can’t remember exactly—as
    President of the Philoptochos. Also, I was quite involved in the Cretan
    Association, one of the largest associations that was ever formed in
    Vancouver. It has quite a few members, more members than any other [Greek]
    association. Of course, now the associations have started to become scarce;
    now they leave, they almost get dissolved, because the young people do not
    have the same needs that we had when we first came here. We missed our
    homeland so much, we had come to a foreign land for the first time. I was
    also a board member [of the Cretan Association]. President of the Cretan
    Association. Together with my husband, my children, we were members. My
    children were members of the Cretan dance group. The Cretan Association was
    founded in 1967, at the old church. We had our meetings there at the
    basement. It was the first [Greek] local association in Vancouver. Slowly,
    more associations were formed, and at one point we had thirty-two
    associations! And now we have three or four …
  </p>
  <p>
    What other changes can you see in Vancouver and in the community?
  </p>
  <p>
    What I see is, since we have this large metropolitan community of
    Vancouver—of course, there are two more Greek communities—we could have had
    more registered members. For some reason, people believe that you do not
    need to be a registered member of the Community. However, the Community has
    expenses, as we all know from our households. We should not think that the
    Community will be there. It is not a given thing. We have to keep it.
  </p>
  <p>
    Do you have a special memory you want to mention?
  </p>
  <p>
    The only thing I want to say is that in those olden days, when my children
    were young, we had zeal. We were eager to participate in Canadian
    celebrations. There was Canada Day, on July 1st. Then there was Greek Day,
    which the City gave to us on the last Sunday in June. Greek Day started in
    1974. I remember the night [before Greek Day] and I want to say it. In one
    evening, I and two sisters—my <em>koumbares</em>—sat and sewed the three
    costumes which we wore the following day. Because the Cretan Association
    needed to show that we were “something” and we did that. It had not been
    around for long since 1967 and we had not bought any costumes. So we
    presented [on Greek Day]. In those days, despite our limited means, we
    prepared floats for the parade. We had a parade [on Greek Day]. It was not
    just selling food; we had floats, we had a parade, all the children were
    dancing. At the steps of the Art Gallery, they used to have a celebration
    for new Canadian citizens. At that place, there was a big square with steps
    and the new citizens were taking their citizenship oath there.
  </p>
  <p>
    Were you invited?
  </p>
  <p>
    And they were inviting us to bring the children dressed up in the
    local/national costumes. We couldn’t wait—both we and the children … To
    load them in the cars, all dressed up, and so on … with our flags. They
    danced. And I remember they would also offer cake.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Effie’s interview and other Hellenic Stories
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>
  <h2>
    Greg Rudloff
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “It’s a Nice Festival”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Greg Rudloff was interviewed on June 14, 2017, at Vancouver Public
    Library’s Dunbar Branch as part of the Story City project.
  </p>
  <p>
    Dunbar has Salmonberry Days, which runs through May every year and has been
    going for twenty-five years now. Just a lot of little community events that
    go on, that are organized by our core group of people. A couple of people
    in this neighbourhood, twenty-five years ago, were talking about how there
    wasn’t a lot of spirit in the neighbourhood. “What we need to do is have a
    festival for this.” So, these two people got together with a few of their
    friends and decided, “Well, let’s decide a time in May. We’ll just schedule
    the event and see who turns out.” So, it’s virtually all free. It’s kind of
    evolved over the years. Of course, people love it, and have for years. It’s
    a nice festival.
  </p>
  <p>
    What’s the funnest part?
  </p>
  <p>
    Well, every year, they bring out one of the old city buses from the transit
    museum—the city has a transit museum with all the old buses—and they take
    you on a tour somewhere. This year, they went out to Steveston, to the
    cannery. The old cannery. Another year they went to Westin Island to some
    of the farms out there. Every year it’s different. So, it’s just kind of
    like you load up. You have to get there early or you don’t get a seat.
    Because, the only number of seats here. It’s usually a sellout. These
    people go off for the day, and do a tour somewhere.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Greg’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <h2>
    Larry Wong
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “A Community Within a Community”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Larry Wong was interviewed in 2015 as part of the Chinatown Stories
    project.
  </p>
  <p>
    There was a movie theatre called Rex Theatre on Hastings, just off Carral
    Street. In fact, it’s near where the present day Army &amp; Navy store is
    located. I used to go to the Rex Theatre practically every Saturday
    matinee. It was one of those beautifully designed and built theatres where
    you pay for your ticket at a box office, you go to the lobby, and you’re
    greeted by an usher. He’ll take you up the ramp, and when you get up to the
    top, it’s actually a mezzanine. And main theatre itself is sort of
    stadium-like, so it goes down, but you can go up to the mezzanine.
  </p>
  <p>
    And I was always ushered to the upper left side of the theatre, which was
    fine, but I didn’t understand why he always took me up there, until one day
    I found out it was because it was Chinese-only, like I wasn’t allowed to
    sit anywhere else in the theatre. So, I didn’t realize that until many
    years later and I said, “Oh my God, no wonder!” But I’d gotten used to
    sitting in the upper left section of the theatre. But I never really
    contemplated that it was restricted. It was really strange. Anyway, that’s
    how it was in those days. There’s a hotel called the May Wah. But it
    changed name over the decades, I don’t know why. But it was a particular
    hotel intended for newly arrived immigrants from a certain part of China.
    In other words, it would be the same district where my father came from. So
    it was really meant for immigrants from that village or county. And, when
    they arrive, and if they don’t have any place to stay, they go to this
    hotel.
  </p>
  <p>
    When I was young, because we were living in the back of a tailor shop, see,
    we didn’t have hot water. Because the store was a store. It wasn’t meant
    for people living in the back. So you don’t have hot water, you see? So,
    what we did for hot water was that we had to boil the water and he would
    put it on the stove and heat it up. And from there, we have water for
    making tea, because my father loved making tea first thing in the morning.
    And then, we have hot water for washing our face and so on, you know.
  </p>
  <p>
    But we had no bathtub. But my father was very adamant that I would have a
    bath. And luckily, his close friend lived in this hotel called the May Wah.
    And he made an arrangement for him to pick me up every Sunday to take a
    Sunday bath. So the close friend, his name was Dun Sing. He would drag
    me —Well, not really drag me, but he would take me by the hand back to the
    hotel. I was about six or seven years old. And he had a single room.
    Anyway, at the end of the hallway was the washroom. But also, they had a
    bathroom.
  </p>
  <p>
    And then so, he would take me down there, and I would undress. And of
    course, the bathtub was one of those deep ones with the funny looking legs.
    And so, he would just fill it up, and I’d go and take my Sunday bath. And
    that was funny. But, I think it was very typical of the immigrants living
    in Chinatown at that time. Especially for immigrants who were merchants,
    and they were living in the back of the store, or the family was living in
    the back of the store. I think they would have the similar arrangements.
  </p>
  <p>
    There was three Chinese schools: one was the Chinese Freemason, the other
    one was Mon Keang, and then the other one was a Chinese public school,
    where I went; it was kitty-corner from Strathcona School on Pender and
    Jackson Avenue. It used to be an old Ukrainian church, and what the Chinese
    school did, it used the lower part of the church, so they had several
    classrooms and also a large area for recess and so on. It was good. I’ve
    forgotten how much my father paid, but there was a fee that you paid to the
    public school, and I think the rest of it was subsidized by the community.
  </p>
  <p>
    See, the thing that we learned at the Chinese school wasn’t a certain
    language or poetry or grammar and all of that, the main thing was learning
    how to play ping-pong. But going to school was very good, because
    Strathcona—originally, I think—was one of the first or second elementary
    schools in Vancouver, and they claimed themselves as being the “school of
    many nations,” because when you go there, well, before World War II, there
    were a lot of Japanese students, but we also had the Ukrainians, because
    the Ukrainians had their church nearby, and then you had the Jewish people,
    because they had the Jewish Synagogue nearby. And then you had the
    Russians, because the Russian Orthodox, they had their church nearby as
    well. So, it was sort of multicultural because of that. And also there was
    a handful of black people living nearby. So there was a fair representation
    of practically everyone from Vancouver, but they happened to live in
    Strathcona and they happened to go to this school.
  </p>
  <p>
    So, that was one of the wonderful things I learned when I did go to public
    school, because you learned to get along with one another. In fact, I
    remember in Grade 8, we did this wonderful play called <em>The Highway Man</em>, and there was this scene, it was sort of a
    Romeo-and-Juliet scene where the man is up on the balcony and he’s kissing
    this girl. Well, what was really astounding, this took place in 1951, ‘52,
    the young male student was Italian, in fact his name was Gino Santaga, and
    the young girl he was kissing was Arlene Lane, who happened to be black.
    It’s like, “Wow, this is the first interracial kiss I’ve ever seen.” And it
    was true, because you don’t see that often, let alone in the school play,
    and this was, like I said, 1951. But for the teachers that were doing it,
    they really didn’t think anything of it because, although we were from
    different backgrounds, we were all students, period. And that’s how they
    looked at us, just, we were students.
  </p>
  <p>
    We learned a great lesson from that, we learned a great sense of tolerance
    and understanding. It was a wonderful school.
  </p>
  <p>
    Within the community it was very self-supporting, and it was out of
    necessity, because, really, the Chinese community was shunned by the white
    population. So, in Chinatown you’ll find that they’ll have their own place
    to shop for food, business to run. They have their own lawyers, they have
    their own accountants, they have their own school. So really, it was a
    community within a community. It was very restrictive, because as I
    understand it, very few Chinese ventured outside of Chinatown, and part of
    it was because they weren’t that welcome once they got out of the
    Chinatown.
  </p>
  <p>
    In fact, I heard that it was quite rare, even when I was growing up, that a
    few Chinese would actually venture out to Granville Street, because on
    Granville Street they had these movie theatres at that time. They were
    afraid of it, because, again, of the discrimination, they may not be
    allowed in the movie theatre, or whatever. My siblings didn’t like the idea
    of living in the village. Basically Chinatown was a village. Everyone knew
    one another, in fact, I have a friend of mine, his name Wayson Choy, you
    might have heard of him. We met when we were in kindergarten.
  </p>
  <p>
    Anyway, he used to talk a lot about me to his mother. So, his mother was
    really curious, and she came down to the shop to introduce herself to my
    father, saying, “Oh, I’m the mother of Wayson.” And so, they had a long
    chat. But, she wanted to check out my family! I mean, this was really
    something, because Wayson and I were really good friends, and he talked a
    lot about me to his mother. It got her curiosity aroused, and so she went
    down to check it out.
  </p>
  <p>
    I guess, just by talking with my parents, and knowing about me from Wayson,
    she knew that Wayson had a very good friend, and that his friend has good
    parents, and that was really valuable. That was a real consideration in
    family relationships. I don’t know if you see that anymore these days, but
    it was something of value, and something that you can trust. So, whether
    that survives today, I don’t know, but there it was.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Larry’s interview and other Chinatown Stories
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <h2>
    Marion Man
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “Finally They Recognize Their Root”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Marion Man was interviewed in on September 4, 2015, as part of the
    Chinatown Stories project.
  </p>
  <p>
    I’ve worked in Chinatown since 1976. I arrived in ’76 and I got my job,
    first job. Finding a job was tough at that time﻿—1976, right? I found a job
    just next door to this church on Pender Street called Chinese Library. It’s
    still there. That library was founded by a group of CBC, Canadian
    Chinese-born kids. They felt that there was a need to preserve some Chinese
    culture, Chinese books, so they started that library, all on voluntary
    basis.
  </p>
  <p>
    And I accidently got a job there. I was doing a lot of volunteer jobs when
    I came here. There was no jobs. I volunteered for SUCCESS, which is just up
    there on Pender Street, and I volunteered for YWCA also just a few blocks
    up there. There was a lot of voluntary agencies here in Chinatown at that
    time. But most of the jobs, they call it contract worker, that means
    government will give you funding for only three months or six months. And
    then you know by the end of the term you have to reapply, reapply again. I
    was working in Chinatown doing volunteer everywhere and I saw this lineup
    in front of a BC Royal restaurant and I bump into a guy who happened to be
    working next door in the Chinese Library and he told me there might be a
    possibility to get a job there. And that’s how I got my very first job
    here. As a contract worker.
  </p>
  <p>
    And my work was going around in this neighbourhood here, in this Strathcona
    neighbourhood, to this housing, low-cost housing, mostly occupied by
    Chinese seniors, they can read and they can write. They speak Toishan,
    their native language. Not even Cantonese. I had a hard time communicating
    with them. There was a lot of fun stories, you know, we just misunderstood
    each other. I had to help them to write letters back to China, to their
    relatives. A lot of people, especially men, they came here without
    families. And so, it was a pretty lonely life here. They need to write back
    to China or read the letters from China and they were just ecstatic when
    they got a letter from China, usually they don’t get it on a regular basis,
    maybe twice a year three times a year, I was helping them to read it and
    write back to their families. So that was my first job.
  </p>
  <p>
    You mentioned that it was kind of a lonely life. Were there certain
    buildings or opportunities for socializing, or were there certain places
    where people went to fight that loneliness at that time?
  </p>
  <p>
    They call it the clansmen association, they have those, but most of those
    are playing Majong or gambling. A lot of people, immigrants, they came here
    and got into two big problems: one is gambling and second is prostitute.
    It’s a very sad story. Because subsequently I became a social worker in
    Chinatown. And I was working for Greater Vancouver Homemaker Association,
    so I have to visit all these buildings. There were fifty buildings in
    Chinatown—as of now, still fifty buildings—low-cost housing, by BC
    government, by city, or by clansmen. So I would have to do assessment, like
    what kind of needs do they have, and we send homemakers or home support to
    their house to help with the seniors. I remember one of the worst case I
    had, in May Wah hostel. That building was so very very old, very very run
    down. At that time, downstairs was chicken meat store, okay? And next door
    was travel agent, I believe still there. And then the upstairs, you see so
    many rats, cockroaches, all over then place. And people living in that
    building have no kitchen. They have a common [one], in the hallway there,
    they have a stove. And they also have a communal bathroom. So very, very
    substandard living, living there. And mostly men there, too. One of the
    men, I remember, he was really, really﻿—almost like having a life in hell.
    Like most immigrants, they will save all their money to send back to China
    for their families. Usually what they did, they buy a meal, let’s say buy a
    meal with rice on it, you know like, two doors away from the May Wah is
    Dollar Meat, they buy something, maybe they don’t buy it there, it’s too
    expensive. They buy somewhere else a meal and chop it into three times to
    eat it. For whole day. That means one meal for whole day. So their health
    condition is very poor. And this guy has also got some disease. He blame it
    on the prostitute, he says, “I got it from that lady.” His body got all
    this﻿—what you call it—lumps, big lumps in his body, all over his back, all
    over his front, it’s just terrible. And he won’t go to hospital. So the
    nurse will come and try to put bandage on it or try to do some sort of
    hygienic cleaning. So that was the life they have, you know. For most of
    the immigrants in those days. They were working in Chinese restaurant or
    laundromat, that was their life, their work.
  </p>
  <p>
    Chinatown used to be occupied by most of Chinese people here. Immigrants,
    you know, they had a tough life. They had some sad history, as well. Some
    have been discriminated, some of them never had a chance to be educated. So
    once they’re able to make some money or financially they have more
    affordability, they want to move out of Chinatown. They don’t want to
    remember. They don’t want to stay here as a ghetto. And so they move out.
    And second generation, too. I have so many CBC friends, they did not want
    to speak Chinese. I’m talking about forty years ago, they did not like to
    learn Chinese, but now they regret, they say, “I wish I can speak Chinese.”
    So those were the mentality, and that’s why people are moving out. And
    church are being closed down. And the church that survive here—some of
    them—are very, very old churches here, like the one on Gore and Pender.
    That’s over a hundred years old.
  </p>
  <p>
    I think church was very, very important for the Chinese immigrants at that
    time. Because they were isolated, somehow. They did not have a lot of
    friends. And church is a place that they feel safe. They don’t feel that
    they’re segregated. So church was an important part of their lives, you
    know. And now, church still very important in this particular location,
    because the church is situated between Downtown East and
    Strathcona-Chinatown here. And both communities have a lot of marginal
    people. In Chinatown﻿—this church is serving a lot of the seniors here. All
    the seniors are low income, and they are also very, very lonely. Still. It
    doesn’t matter, before or now, seniors are lonely by nature. Because the
    family, you know, in Canada, a lot of children, they don’t even live in
    Vancouver, let alone live with the parents. So they are living alone in
    this low-cost housing. I think they need the support. This church is trying
    to offer support to this marginal group of seniors here.
  </p>
  <p>
    Also to try to welcome the newcomers here, too. Now the people coming to
    this church, not just Chinese people, also there’s a lot of Caucasian, new
    families coming in here, and so they also attend this church, as well. So
    they can serve the families and children and youth here. And on the other
    side there’s the Downtown East here, we have a lot of addicts and we have a
    lot of homeless people, and this church welcome them to come. We have a
    smaller church, they basically emphasize working with this group of people.
    So I think church plays a very important role in this location, in
    Chinatown location. For the reason that the capacity of the population and
    the different ethnic groups here. It’s very multicultural here in
    Chinatown, as you can see it, right?
  </p>
  <p>
    Also, this church now is not like before. Before it’s a Catholic church, it
    was a Korean church before this, and now it’s a community church. That
    means we embrace everybody here. We don’t have any denominations. Now we
    have four churches working together here. We might have more. We like to
    see this church as a community centre. Who need to come to use it, they can
    use it. Even some social agencies, they have a need to use it, we have an
    open door for them to use it as well, too.
  </p>
  <p>
    I was working with the marginal most the time as a social worker. Most of
    the people I serve, they are underprivileged, and they are somehow
    segregated from the mainstream. They never had the chance to mingle with
    the mainstream. So in that sense, there is some sort of segregation there.
    That’s why I understand why those second generation CBC, they don’t want to
    identify themselves as Chinese. I come to understand why they don’t want to
    learn Chinese. Because they want to be more identified as local people, as
    Canadian people. They don’t feel they’re Chinese people. They don’t <em>want</em> to feel that they are Chinese people. But now, I think things
    have changed a little bit. Thanks to this multiculturalism, the promotion
    of multiculturalism, people think: “You are who you are and you should be
    proud of who are. You should be proud of your root, and your root can
    contribute to this multiculturalism.” And so I think that’s been improved
    in my opinion.
  </p>
  <p>
    I see some people moving back here. The third generation, they are moving
    back to Chinatown, some of them. Still not in a big wave. But I see some of
    them, which is a good sign. I think finally they recognize their root, and
    they are not ashamed of their past.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Marion’s interview and other Chinatown Stories
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <h2>
    Anna Terrana
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “The Centre Became My Second Home”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Anna Terrana was interviewed on March 1, 2017, as part of the Story City
    project.
  </p>
  <p>
    My name is Anna Terrana. Some of the things I’ve done: I’ve been the
    executive director of the Italian Cultural Centre Society, I was also the
    president for five years, and I was also a Member of Parliament.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>Could you tell me a little about [coming to Canada]?</em>
  </p>
  <p>
    Well, I was very happy where I was. I’m from Torino, in Piemonte. I used to
    work with the Americans. I had a very good job, in fact. But I met the man
    of my dreams, I suppose, and we married. But he was a very unstable person,
    he wasn’t able to stay in the same place for a long time. And in fact he
    had just arrived … from Australia where he had lived for nine years. He was
    originally from Trieste in Italy. And we ended up getting married and he
    didn’t want to stay in Italy and here we are. Here I am.
  </p>
  <p>
    We arrived in October 1966. And I was very sad. I didn’t want to be here. I
    wanted to be where I was … But somehow everything turned in a way that I
    could not say no. I just had to come. Even at the last minute, I was at the
    airport, and behind me there was the pilot of the plane, and the woman at
    the counter said that she could not let me come to Canada because I did not
    have a visa. I didn’t know I needed a visa, nobody ever told me anything.
    And so she said, “I cannot let you go.” Then the pilot said, “No, just stop
    it,” he said, “I’ll take this lady with me to Canada and if they don’t want
    her, I’ll bring her back.” Well, they wanted me. Here I am.
  </p>
  <p>
    In ’75, [my husband] and I split, so I found myself alone with this child.
    Thank God I had a good job. I was the administrator of the BC Place
    Commissions. I had to look after this child, and I had nobody, no family
    support, no anything.
  </p>
  <p>
    I started with Big Brothers, and the United Way, and I went on from there.
    And then I saw that they wanted to build a centre, the Consul of Italy …
    They told me “Why don’t you build a centre for the community? And the
    government will help you.” We started from there.
  </p>
  <p>
    [I lived in] the same place in Burnaby for, how is it? Forty-six years. So
    I made up for the eight years that I had to move. Because my husband and I
    separated, so I stayed there. I stayed there because of David, my son.
    Because he needed to have some stability in life.
  </p>
  <p>
    It was very difficult for me to do all the things then. But he was very
    supportive. He always was there when I needed him. And David, when he was
    growing up, then we had to run home, make supper, and go again to the
    meeting, take him to the meeting﻿—poor David. The Centre became my second
    home. I was thinking of just leaving a bed there because I was there from
    nine o’clock in the morning ‘till eleven o’clock at night. Weekends, the
    same thing. People knew that I was there so they came by. They were fun
    times.
  </p>
  <p>
    Did you put your son into language school?
  </p>
  <p>
    David, no. David doesn’t even speak Italian, and you know I used to teach
    Italian. In Italy, I taught some Italian. And here, I started the ESL
    courses. The City of Vancouver had this project and again someone gave my
    name. This was 1969﻿–﻿1970. Peter Davis was in charge of this project from
    the City of Vancouver and then it involved was also the Federal Government
    and the United Church. And the idea was to bring, to have a bunch of us …
    for instance they started with the Italian and Chinese communities. Maggie
    Ip, you probably heard of her before: she has always been a very active
    Chinese person and she has also been a counsellor at City Hall. So she was
    in charge of the Chinese community and I was in charge of the Italian
    community.
  </p>
  <p>
    The idea was to bring these people with their children. Because the women
    ended up staying at home and the men were out working. So they were working
    and learning English but the women had no chance to do that. So we got them
    out of the house with their children, and we taught them English. We
    started in September/October and we ended in June … it was six months
    altogether. These people in the end could speak English. Because they did
    have English in their ears and they needed some attention.
  </p>
  <p>
    We were holding the classes at Saint Francis of Assisi because it was then
    the Italian church. So downstairs they have a small hall, and we had people
    looking after the children, and we had grandmothers. But I was teaching in
    the evening, so no grandmothers because they ended up going in the
    afternoon, but to this day occasionally I run into to someone and it’s, “Oh
    Anna!” One in particular, because he lives in Burnaby where I live. But
    usually I don’t even recognize them because so many years have gone by.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Anna’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>

  <p>

  </p>
  <h2>
    Anna Zhao and Son
  </h2>
  <h2>
    “There’s Lots of Good Social Support Here”
  </h2>
  <p>
    Anna Zhao and her son were interviewed May 24, 2017, as part of the Story
    City project.
  </p>
  <p>
    First name is Anna. Last name is Zhao.
  </p>
  <p>
    Okay. So you’ve been in Vancouver how long?
  </p>
  <p>
    We moved in 2014, because I went to UBC for my Master. It was a pretty big
    move. We pretty much sold everything in China. Because his father passed
    away, so there’s two of us, we moved here, just us. So far, it’s an amazing
    place, living. I don’t regret about my decision moving here. Because
    compared to Beijing, people are nicer, more friendly, and more open. With
    cultural diversity too, you meet people from all walks of life and from
    every different countries. And that we’re all living here is pretty
    amazing. You don’t see that anywhere in the world, really. I think I got
    lots of support from the communities. I’m trying to get my permanent
    residency. I’m not really a permanent resident yet. But I got lots of
    support from, like he got a Big Brother. I don’t know if you’re familiar
    with that program. It’s like a charity or nonprofit program for kids, from
    eight to fifteen who need more male support, either single moms or widows,
    or even divorced people, if they don’t have enough hours with their fathers
    or their male figures. And they provide volunteers, they go out every week,
    they have to set up a role model for them, and basically, moms stay out of
    it. And it’s just them. So they have fun together. So luckily, we got a
    role model.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>Anna’s son</em>
    : There’s also a program called Big Sisters.
  </p>
  <p>
    Yeah, that’s the opposite, for girls. There was a bit wait time, but
    luckily we got a really good one for him, since last May actually. So it’s
    been a year. I’m really happy with it. And also, I go to single mothers’
    support group, sponsored by the YWCA. So there’s lots of good social
    support here.
  </p>
  <p>
    <em>
      To hear audio clips from Anna’s interview and other Story City
      participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.
    </em>
  </p>
</body>

</html>
