<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Greg Rudloff</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="greg-rudloff" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span>Greg Rudloff</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">“It’s a Nice Festival”</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Greg Rudloff was interviewed on June 14, 2017, at Vancouver Public Library’s Dunbar Branch as part of the Story City project.</p>
			<p>Dunbar has Salmonberry Days, which runs through May every year and has been going for twenty-five years now. Just a lot of little community events that go on, that are organized by our core group of people. A couple of people in this neighbourhood, twenty-five years ago, were talking about how there wasn’t a lot of spirit in the neighbourhood. “What we need to do is have a festival for this.” So, these two people got together with a few of their friends and decided, “Well, let’s decide a time in May. We’ll just schedule the event and see who turns out.” So, it’s virtually all free. It’s kind of evolved over the years. Of course, people love it, and have for years. It’s a nice festival.</p>
			<p>What’s the funnest part?</p>
			<p>Well, every year, they bring out one of the old city buses from the transit museum⁠—the city has a transit museum with all the old buses⁠—and they take you on a tour somewhere. This year, they went out to Steveston, to the cannery. The old cannery. Another year they went to Westin Island to some of the farms out there. Every year it’s different. So, it’s just kind of like you load up. You have to get there early or you don’t get a seat. Because, the only number of seats here. It’s usually a sellout. These people go off for the day, and do a tour somewhere.</p>
			<p>
				<em>To hear audio clips from Greg’s interview and other Story City participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.</em>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
