<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Introduction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="introduction" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Introduction</h2>
			<p>Every community is the sum of its stories. A tiny fraction of those stories eventually make their way into books, but most live only in the memories of community members.</p>
			<p>In 2013, Vancouver Public Library began a project to collect and preserve some of these stories and memories in an online collection that would be available to everyone. At the time, we didn’t anticipate how many different types of memories this project would attract or how profound the demand would be. Stories began to pour in. Some folks came to our offices with photographs or objects that they had been meaning to preserve for decades.</p>
			<p>In the following years, library staff equipped with digital recorders ventured out of the library to Indigenous arts festivals, slam poetry haunts, local French-language cafés, and a host of community spaces to map out the cultural life of Vancouver as told by its residents. Over four hundred people shared their unique memories of the unceded Coast Salish territory that has become the city of Vancouver.</p>
			<p>Their stories and memories are now available at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">This Vancouver</a>, an online collection of audio recordings, photographs, and videos clips. The e-book you hold in your hand contains a small sampling of excerpts from this online collection. We hope you enjoy reading these interviews and will continue your journey with us at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">This Vancouver</a>, where you can hear your neighbours share their stories in their own voices.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
