<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Julia Lane</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="julia-lane" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">
					<span>Julia Lane</span>
					<span epub:type="subtitle">“People See You When You’re Flustered</span>
				</h2>
				<p>Julia Lane was interviewed on August 4, 2017, at Mount Pleasant Community Centre, as part of the <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/story-city">Story City</a> project.</p>
			</header>
			<p>I came into the library. I had my stroller, I had like way too much stuff with me, as I usually do. So I had too much stuff, and I had a library fine, which never happens because I’m very fastidious about not having library fines. I was flustered, and I was wanting to pay my library fine. It wasn’t a lot of money, it was like $2, but I didn’t have any cash, I was trying to find cash, couldn’t find any cash. “So can I just pay you this with my debit card? I know it’s dumb, it’s only $2.” The librarian would say, “It’s okay, settle down, you’re fine.” And then some person came up behind me and he was like, “I’ll pay it for you, it’s fine,” and I was like, “No, no, I can pay it. It’s not like I don’t have the money.” He’s like, “No, you look like you’re having a rough day.” I said, “I’m actually fine, I’m not upset. I just have too many things and I’m flustered.” And so he paid the library fine for me after much protestation on my part, and he gave my son Felix five bucks, and I was like, “We really don’t need to take your money, sir. Like thank you, we’re fine.” And he was like, “No, no, I want him to have it, it’s his now.” That was an interesting moment where I was like, Wow, I must have come off very needy in this particular instance. But I just left feeling very like supported by the community here, feeling like, okay people see you when you’re flustered and might want to help out, so that was really nice.</p>
			<hr/>
			<blockquote class="note">To hear audio clips from Julia’s interview and other Story City participants, please explore the full collection at <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/">thisvancouver.vpl.ca</a>.</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
